# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 06871117 B2
**Publication Date:** 2005-03-22
**Application Number:** 10423429
**Filing Date:** 2003-04-24

## Modularity system for computer assisted surgery

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**International Classification:** G06F019/00
**US Classification:** 700245
**Number of Claims:** 10

## Abstract

A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1] is a perspective view of a medical robotic system;
[Figure FIG. 2] is an exploded side view of an instrument of the robotic system;
[Figure FIG. 3] is an illustration of network system;
[Figure FIG. 4] is an illustration of a 鈥渟urgeon鈥?side of the system;
[Figure FIG. 5] is an illustration of a 鈥減atient鈥?side of the system;
[Figure FIG. 6] is a schematic showing various fields of a packet transmitted across a communication network;
[Figure FIG. 7] is an illustration showing an alternate embodiment of the network system.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/949,050, entitled 鈥淢odularity System for Computer Assisted Surgery, filed on Sep. 7, 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,728,599.

### BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a medical robotic system.
2. Background Information
Blockage of a coronary artery may deprive the heart of blood and oxygen required to sustain life. The blockage may be removed with medication or by an angioplasty. For severe blockage a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) is performed to bypass the blocked area of the artery. CABG procedures are typically performed by splitting the sternum and pulling open the chest cavity to provide access to the heart. An incision is made in the artery adjacent to the blocked area. The internal mammary artery is then severed and attached to the artery at the point of incision. The internal mammary artery bypasses the blocked area of the artery to again provide a full flow of blood to the heart. Splitting the sternum and opening the chest cavity can create a tremendous trauma to the patient. Additionally, the cracked sternum prolongs the recovery period of the patient.
Computer Motion of Goleta, Calif. provides a system under the trademark ZEUS that allows a surgeon to perform a minimally invasive CABG procedure. The procedure is performed with instruments that are inserted through small incisions in the patient's chest. The instruments are controlled by robotic arms. Movement of the robotic arms and actuation of instrument end effectors are controlled by the surgeon through a pair of handles and a foot pedal that are coupled to an electronic controller. Alternatively, the surgeon can control the movement of an endoscope used to view the internal organs of the patient through voice commands.
The handles and a screen are typically integrated into a console that is operated by the surgeon to control the various robotic arms and medical instruments of a ZEUS system. Utilizing a robotic system to perform surgery requires a certain amount of training. It would be desirable to provide a system that would allow a second surgeon to assist another surgeon in controlling a robotic medical system. The second surgeon could both teach and assist a surgeon learning to perform a medical procedure with a ZEUS system. This would greatly reduce the time required to learn the operation of a robotically assisted medical system.
U.S. Pat. No. 5,217,003 issued to Wilk discloses a surgical system which allows a surgeon to remotely operate robotically controlled medical instruments through a telecommunication link. The Wilk system only allows for one surgeon to operate the robotic arms at a given time. Wilk does not disclose or contemplate a system which allows two different surgeons to operate the same set of robotic arms.
U.S. Pat. No. 5,609,560 issued to Ichikawa et al. and assigned to Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. discloses a system that allows an operator to control a plurality of different medical devices through a single interface. The Olympus patent does not disclose a system which allows multiple input devices to control a single medical device.

### BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
A medical system that includes a single medical device that can be controlled by one of two input devices.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Referring to the drawings more particularly by reference numbers, [Figure FIG. 1] shows a system **10** that can perform minimally invasive surgery. In one embodiment, the system **10** is used to perform a minimally invasive coronary artery bypass graft (MI-CABG) and other anastomostic procedures. Although a MI-CABG procedure is shown and described, it is to be understood that the system may be used for other surgical procedures. For example, the system can be used to suture any pair of vessels. The system **10** can be used to perform a procedure on a patient **12** that is typically lying on an operating table **14**. Mounted to the operating table **14** is a first articulate arm **16**, a second articulate arm **18** and a third articulate arm **20**. The articulate arms **16**, **18** and **20** are preferably mounted to the table **14** so that the arms are at a same reference plane as the patient. Although three articulate arms are shown and described, it is to be understood that the system may have any number of arms.
The first and second articulate arms **16** and **18** each have a surgical instrument **22** and **24**, respectively, coupled to robotic arms **26** and **28**, respectively. The third articulate arm **20** includes a robotic arm **30** that holds and moves an endoscope **32**. The instruments **22** and **24**, and endoscope **32** are inserted through incisions cut into the skin of the patient. The endoscope has a camera **34** that is coupled to a television monitor **36** which displays images of the internal organs of the patient.
The first **16**, second **18**, and third **20** articulate arms are coupled to a controller **38** which can control the movement of the arms. The controller **38** is connected to an input device **40** such as a foot pedal that can be operated by a surgeon to move the location of the endoscope **32**. The controller **38** contains electrical circuits, such as a processor, to control the robotic arms **26**, **28** and **30**. The surgeon can view a different portion of the patient by depressing a corresponding button(s) of the pedal **40**. The controller **38** receives the input signal(s) from the foot pedal **40** and moves the robotic arm **30** and endoscope **32** in accordance with the input commands of the surgeon. The robotic arm may be a device that is sold by the assignee of the present invention, Computer Motion, Inc. of Goleta, Calif., under the trademark AESOP. The system is also described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,657,429 issued to Wang et al., which is hereby incorporated by reference. Although a foot pedal **40** is shown and described, it is to be understood that the system may have other input means such as a hand controller, or a speech recognition interface.
The instruments **22** and **24** of the first **16** and second **18** articulate arms, respectively, are controlled by a pair of master handles **42** and **44** that can be manipulated by the surgeon. The handles **42** and **44**, and arms **16** and **18**, have a master-slave relationship so that movement of the handles **42** and **44** produces a corresponding movement of the surgical instruments **22** and **24**. The handles **42** and **44** may be mounted to a portable cabinet **46**. The handles **42** and **44** are also coupled to the controller **38**.
The controller **38** receives input signals from the handles **42** and **44**, computes a corresponding movement of the surgical instruments, and provides output signals to move the robotic arms **26** and **28** and instruments **22** and **24**. The entire system may be a product marketed by Computer Motion under the trademark ZEUS. The operation of the system is also described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,762,458 issued to Wang et al. and assigned to Computer Motion, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
[Figure FIG. 2] shows one of the surgical instruments **22** or **24**. The instrument **22** or **24** includes an end effector **48** that is coupled to an actuator rod **50**. The actuator rod **50** is coupled to a motor **52** by an adapter **54**. The motor **52** actuates the end effector **48** by moving the actuator rod **50**. The actuator rod **50** is coupled to a force sensor **56** that can sense the force being applied by the end effector **48**. The force sensor **56** provides an analog output signal that is sent to the controller shown in FIG. **1**.
The adapter **54** is coupled to a gear assembly **58** located at the end of a robotic arm **26** or **28**. The gear assembly **58** can rotate the adapter **54** and end effector **48**. The actuator rod **50** and end effector **48** may be coupled to the force sensor **56** and motor **52** by a spring biased lever **60**. The instrument **22** or **24** may be the same or similar to an instrument described in the '458 patent.
[Figure FIG. 3] shows a system **100** that allows two different input devices to control one medical device. The input devices may be a first console **102** and a second console **104**. The consoles **102** and **104** may each include the screen **36**, handles **42** and **44**, foot pedal (not shown) and controller **38** shown in FIG. **1**. The medical devices may include the robotic arms **26**, **28** and **30** and/or instruments **22** and **24** shown in FIG. **1**. In general, the system allows a surgeon at either console **102** or **104** to control a medical device **22**, **24**, **26**, **28** and or **30**. For example, the surgeon at console **102** can move the robotic arms **26** and **28** through movement of the handles **42** and **44**. The surgeon at console **104** can override the input from console **102** and control the movement of the robotic arms **26** and **28** through the movement of the console handles.
The consoles **102** and **104** are coupled to a network port **106** by a pair of interconnect devices **108** and **110**. The network port **106** may be a computer that contains the necessary hardware and software to transmit and receive information through a communication link **112** in a communication network **114**.
Consoles **102** and **104** provided by Computer Motion under the ZEUS mark provide output signals that may be incompatible with a computer. The interconnect devices **108** and **110** may provide an interface that conditions the signals for transmitting and receiving signals between the consoles **102** and **104** and the network computer **106**.
It is to be understood that the computer and/or consoles **102** and **104** may be constructed so that the system does not require the interconnect devices **108** and **110**. Additionally, the consoles **102** and **104** may be constructed so that the system does not require a separate networking computer **106**. For example, the consoles **102** and **104** may be constructed and/or configured to directly transmit information through the communication network **114**.
The system **100** may include a second network port **116** that is coupled to a device controller(s) **118** and the communication network **114**. The device controller **118** controls the robotic arms **26**, **28** and **30** and instruments **22** and **24**. The second network port **116** may be a computer that is coupled to the controller **118** by an interconnect device **120**. Although an interconnect device **120** and network computer **116** are shown and described, it is to be understood that the controller **118** can be constructed and configured to eliminate the device **120** and/or computer **116**.
The communication network **114** may be any type of communication system including but not limited to, the internet and other types of wide area networks (WANs), intranets, local area networks (LANs), public switched telephone networks (PSTN), integrated services digital networks (ISDN). It is preferable to establish a communication link through a fiber optic network to reduce latency in the system. Depending upon the type of communication link selected, by way of example, the information can be transmitted in accordance with the user datagram protocol/internet protocol (UDP/IP) or asynchronous transfer mode/ATM Adaption Layer (ATM/AAL**1**) network protocols. The computers **112** and **116** may operate in accordance with an operating system sold under the designation VxWORKS by Wind River. By way of example, the computers **112** and **116** may be constructed and configured to operate with 100-base T Ethernet and/or 155 Mbps fiber ATM systems.
[Figure FIG. 4] shows an embodiment of a 鈥渟urgeon鈥?side of the system. Each console **102** and **104** may be accompanied by a touchscreen computer **122** and an endoscope interface computer **124**. The touchscreen computer **122** may be a device sold by Computer Motion under the trademark HERMES. The touchscreen **122** allows the surgeon to control and vary different functions and operations of the instruments **22** and **24**. For example, the surgeon may vary the scale between movement of the handles **42** and **44** and movement of the instruments **22** and **24** through a graphical user interface (GUI) of the touchscreen **122**. The touchscreen **122** may have another GUI that allows the surgeon to initiate an action such as closing the gripper of an instrument.
The endoscope computer **124** may allow the surgeon to control the movement of the robotic arm **30** and the endoscope **32** shown in FIG. **1**. The endoscope computer **124** may be an alternate to, or in addition to, the foot pedal **40** shown in FIG. **1**. The endoscope computer **124** may be a device sold by Computer Motion under the trademark SOCRATES The touchscreen **122** and endoscope computers **124** may be coupled to the network computer **106** by RS232 interfaces.
A ZEUS console will transmit and receive information that is communicated as analog, digital or quadrature signals. The network computer **112** may have analog input/output (I/O) **126**, digital I/O **128** and quadrature **130** interfaces that allow communication between the console **102** or **104** and the network **114**. By way of example, the analog interface **126** may transceive data relating to handle position, tilt position, in/out position and foot pedal information (if used). The quadrature signals may relate to roll and pan position data. The digital I/O interface **128** may relate to cable wire sensing data, handle buttons, illuminators (LEDs) and audio feedback (buzzers). The position data is preferably absolute position information. By using absolute position information the robotic arms can still be moved even when some information is not successfully transmitted across the network **114**. If incremental position information is provided, an error in the transmission would create a gap in the data and possibly inaccurate arm movement. The network computer **112** may further have a screen **132** that allows for a user to operate the computer **112**.
[Figure FIG. 5] shows an embodiment of a 鈥減atient鈥?side of the system **100**. The controller **118** may include three separate controllers **134**, **136** and **138**. The controller **134** may receive input commands, perform kinematic computations based on the commands, and drive output signals to move the robotic arms **26** and **28** and accompanying instruments **22** and **24** to a desired position. The controller **136** may receive commands that are processed to both move and actuate the instruments **22** and **24**. Controller **138** may receive input commands, perform kinematic computations based on the commands, and drive output signals to move the robotic arm **30** and accompanying endoscope **32**.
Controllers **134** and **136** may be coupled to the network computer **116** by digital I/O **140** and analog I/O **142** interfaces. The computer **116** may be coupled to the controller **138** by an RS232 interface. Additionally, the computer **116** may be coupled to corresponding RS232 ports of the controllers **134** and **136**. The RS232 ports of the controllers **134** and **136** may receive data such as movement scaling and end effector actuation.
The robotic arms and instruments contain sensors, encoders, etc. that provide feedback information. Some or all of this feedback information may be transmitted over the network **114** to the surgeon side of the system. By way of example, the analog feedback information may include handle feedback, tilt feedback, in/out feedback and foot pedal feedback. Digital feedback may include cable sensing, buttons, illumination and audatory feedback. The computer **116** may be coupled to a screen **142**.
The computers **106** and **116** may packetize the information for transmission through the communication network **114**. Each packet will contain two types of data, robotic data and RS232 data. Robotic data may include position information of the robots, including input commands to move the robots and position feedback from the robots. RS232 data may include functioning data such as instrument scaling and actuation.
Because the system transmits absolute position data the packets of robotic data can be received out of sequence. This may occur when using a UDP/IP protocol which uses a best efforts methodology. The computers **106** and **116** are constructed and configured to disregard any 鈥渓ate鈥?arriving packets with robotic data. For example, the computer **106** may transmits packets **1**, **2** and **3**. The computer **116** may receive the packets in the order of **1**, **3** and **2**. The computer **116** will disregard the second packet **2**. Disregarding the packet instead of requesting a re-transmission of the data reduces the latency of the system. It is desirable to minimize latency to create a 鈥渞eal time鈥?operation of the system.
It is preferable to have the RS232 information received in strict sequential order. Therefore the receiving computer will request a re-transmission of RS232 data from the transmitting computer if the data is not errorlessly received. RS232 data such as motion scaling and instrument actuation must be accurately transmitted and processed to insure that there is not an inadvertent command.
The computers **106** and **116** can multiplex the RS232 data from the various input sources. The computers **106** and **116** may have first-in first-out queues (FIFO) for transmitting information. Data transmitted between the computer **106** and the various components within the surgeon side of the system may be communicated through a protocol provided by Computer Motion under the name HERMES NETWORK PROTOCOL (HNP). Likewise, information may be transmitted between components on the patient side of the system in accordance with HNP.
In addition to the robotic and RS232 data, the patient side of the system will transmit video data from the endoscope camera **34**. To reduce latency in the system, the computer **116** can multiplex the video data with the robotic/RS232 data onto the communication network. The video data may be compressed using conventional JPEG, etc. compression techniques for transmission to the surgeon side of the system.
Each packet **150** may have the fields shown in FIG. **6**. The SOURCE ID field includes identification information of the input device or medical device from where the data originates. The DESTINATION ID field includes identification information identifying the input device or medical device that is to receive the data. The OPCODE field defines the type of commands being transmitted. The PRIORITY field defines the priority of the input device. The priority data may be utilized to determine which input device has control of the medical device. The SEQ # field provides a packet sequence number so that the receiving computer can determine whether the packet is out of sequence.
The TX Rate field is the average rate at which packets are being transmitted. The RX Rate field is the average rate that packets are being received. The RS232 ACK field includes an acknowledgement count for RS232 data. RS232 data is typically maintained within the queue of a computer until an acknowledgement is received from the receiving computer that the data has been received.
The RS232 POS field is a counter relating to transmitted RS232 data. The RS232 ID field is an identification for RS232 data. The RS232 MESS SZ field contains the size of the packet. The RS232 BUFFER field contains the content length of the packet. The DATA field contains data being transmitted and may contain separate subfields for robotic and RS232 data. CS is a checksum field used to detect errors in the transmission of the packet.
Either computer **106** or **116** can be used as an arbitrator between the input devices and the medical devices. For example, the computer **116** may receive data from both consoles **102** and **104**. The packets of information from each console **102** and **104** may include priority data in the PRIORITY fields. The computer **116** will route the data to the relevant device (eg. robot, instrument, etc.) in accordance with the priority data. For example, console **104** may have a higher priority than console **102**. The computer **116** will route data to control a robot from console **104** to the exclusion of data from console **102** so that the surgeon at **104** has control of the arm.
As an alternate embodiment, the computer **116** may be constructed and configured to provide priority according to the data in the SOURCE ID field. For example, the computer **116** may be programmed to always provide priority for data that has the source ID from console **104**. The computer **116** may have a hierarchical tree that assigns priority for a number of different input devices.
Alternatively, the computer **106** may function as the arbitrator, screening the data before transmission across the network **114**. The computer **106** may have a priority scheme that always awards priority to one of the consoles **102** or **104**. Additionally, or alternatively, one or more of the consoles **102** and **104** may have a mechanical and/or software switch that can be actuated to give the console priority. The switch may function as an override feature to allow a surgeon to assume control of a procedure.
In operation, the system initial performs a start-up routine. The ZEUS system is typically configured to start-up with data from the consoles. The consoles may not be in communication during the start-up routine of the robotic arms, instruments, etc. during the start-up routine so that the system does not have the console data required for system boot. The computer **116** may automatically drive the missing console input data to default values. The default values allow the patient side of the system to complete the start-up routine. Likewise, the computer **106** may also drive missing incoming signals from the patient side of the system to default values to allow the consoles **102** and/or **104** to boot-up. Driving missing signals to a default value may be part of a network local mode. The local mode allows one or more consoles to 鈥渉ot plug鈥?into the system without shutting the system down.
Additionally, if communication between the surgeon and patient sides of the system are interrupted during operation the computer **106** will again force the missing data to default values. The default values may be quiescent signal values to prevent unsafe operation of the system. The components on the patient side will be left at the last known value so that the instruments and arms do not move.
Once the start-up routines have been completed and the communication link has been established the surgeons can operate the consoles. The system is quite useful for medical procedures wherein one of the surgeons is a teacher and the other surgeon is a pupil. The arbitration function of the system allows the teacher to take control of robot movement and instrument actuation at anytime during the procedure. This allows the teacher to instruct 