# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 07395249 B2
**Publication Date:** 2008-07-01
**Application Number:** 10942374
**Filing Date:** 2004-09-15

## Speech interface for an automated endoscope system

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**US Classification:** 706 14
**Number of Claims:** 26

## Abstract

A robotic system which controls the movement of a surgical instrument in response to voice commands from the user. The robotic system has a computer controlled arm that holds the surgical instrument. The user provides voice commands to the computer through a microphone. The computer contains a phrase recognizer that matches the user' speech with words stored in the computer. Matched words are then processed to determine whether the user has spoken a robot command. If the user has spoken a recognized robot command the computer will move the robotic arm in accordance with the command.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The objects and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings, wherein:
[Figure FIG. 1] is a perspective view of a robotic endoscope system of the present invention;
[Figure FIG. 2] is a schematic of an endoscope within two separate coordinate systems;
[Figure FIG. 3] is a top view of a foot pedal;
[Figure FIG. 4] is a schematic of a computer system;
[Figure FIG. 5] is a schematic of a grammar process;
[Figure FIG. 6] is a schematic of a robotic arm.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/095,488 filed Mar. 11, 2002, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, which is a continuation U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/310,665 filed on Sep. 22 1994.

### BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention is a robotic system which controls the movement of a surgical instrument in response to voice commands from the user. A surgical instrument is a tool or device used during a surgery or operation. Examples of surgical instruments include forceps, laparoscopes, endoscopes, and medical telescopes. The robotic system has a computer controlled arm that holds the surgical instrument. The user provides voice commands to the computer through a microphone. The computer contains a phrase recognizer that matches the user's speech with words stored in the computer. Matched words are then processed to determine whether the user has spoken a robot command. If the user has spoken a recognized robot command the computer will move the robotic arm in accordance with the command.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Referring to the drawings more particularly by reference numbers, [Figure FIG. 1] shows a robotic system **10** of the present invention. The system **10** is typically used in a sterile operating room where a surgeon performs a surgical procedure on a patient. The patient is placed on a operating table **12**. Attached to the table **12** is a robotic arm assembly **14** which can move a surgical instrument **16** relative to the table **12** and the patient. The surgical instrument **16** is typically an endoscope which is inserted into the abdomen of the patient **12**. The endoscope **16** enters the patient through a cannula, wherein the scope **16** rotate about a cannula pivot point. The endoscope is typically connected to a monitor **18** which allows the surgeon to view the organs, etc. of the patient. Although an endoscope is described and shown, it is to be understood that the present invention can be used with other surgical instruments.
The robotic arm assembly **14** controlled by a computer **20**. In the preferred embodiment, the robotic arm assembly **16** includes a linear actuator **24** fixed to the table **14**. The linear actuator **24** is connected to a linkage arm assembly **26** and adapted to move the linkage assembly **26** along the z axis of a first coordinate system. The first coordinate system also has an x axis and a y axis.
The linkage arm assembly **26** includes a first linkage arm **28** attached to a first rotary actuator **30** and an end effector **32**. The first rotary actuator **30** is adapted to rotate the first linkage arm **28** and end effector **32** in a plane perpendicular to the z axis (x-y plane) The first rotary actuator **30** is connected to a second rotary actuator **34** by a second linkage arm **36**. The second actuator **34** is adapted to rotate the first actuator **30** in the x-y plane. The second rotary actuator **34** is connected to the output shaft of the linear actuator **24**. The actuators **24**, **30** and **34** rotate in response to output signals provided by the computer **20**. As shown in [Figure FIG. 2], the junction of the endoscope **16** and the end effector **32** define a second coordinate-system which has an x鈥?axis, a y鈥?axis and a z鈥?axis. The junction of the end effector **32** and endoscope **18** also define the origin of a third coordinate system which has a x鈥?axis, a p axis and a z鈥?axis. The z鈥?axis parallel with the longitudinal axis of the endoscope **16**.
The arm assembly may have a pair of passive joints that allow the end effector to be rotated in the direction indicated by the arrows. The actuators **24**, **30** and **34**, and joints of the arm may each have position sensors (not shown) that are connected to the computer **20**. The sensors provide positional feedback signals of each corresponding arm component.
The system has a microphone **40** that is connected to the computer **20**. The system may also have a speaker **42** that is connected to the computer **20**. The microphone **40** and speaker **42** may be mounted to a headset **44** that is worn by the user. Placing the microphone **40** in close proximity to the user reduces the amount of background noise provided to the computer and decreases the probability of an inadvertent input command.
As shown in [Figure FIG. 3], the system may also have a foot pedal **50**. The foot pedal **22** has a housing **56** that supports a pair of outer first foot switches **58** and a second foot switch **60**. One outer foot switch **58** has a first pressure transducer **62** and the other switch has a second pressure transducer **64**. The second foot switch **60** has third **66**, fourth **68**, fifth **70** and sixth **72** pressure transducers. The transducers are each connected to a corresponding operational amplifier that provides a voltage input to the computer **20**. The pressure transducers **62**-**72** are preferably constructed so that the resistance of each transducer decreases as the surgeon increases the pressure on the foot switches. Such a transducer is sold by Interlink Electronics. The decreasing transducer resistance increases the input voltage provided to the computer **20** from the operational amplifier. Each transducer corresponds to a predetermined direction within the image displayed by the monitor. In the preferred embodiment, the first pressure transducer **62** corresponds to moving the endoscope toward the image viewed by the surgeon. The second transducer **64** moves the scope away from the image. The third **66** and fourth **68** transducers move the image 鈥渦p鈥?and 鈥渄own鈥? respectively, and the fifth **70** and sixth **72** transducers move the image 鈥渓eft鈥?and 鈥渞ight鈥? respectively. The pedal may have a button **73** that enables the foot pedal **50** and disable the voice command feature, or vice versa.
[Figure FIG. 4] shows a schematic of the computer **20**. The computer **20** has a multiplexer **74** which is connected to the pressure transducers of the foot pedal **50** and the position sensors of the arm. The multiplexer **74** is connected to a single analog to digital (A/D) converter **76**. The computer **20** also has a processor **78** and memory **80**.
The processor **78** is connected to an address decoder **82** and separate digital to analog (D/A) converters **84**. Each D/A converter is connected to an actuator **24**, **30** and **34**. The D/A converters **84** provide analog output signals to the actuators in response to output signals received from the processor **78**. The analog output signals have a sufficient voltage level to energize the electric motors and move the robotic arm assembly. The decoder **82** correlates the addresses provided by the processor with a corresponding D/A converter, so that the correct motor(s) is driven. The address decoder **82** also provides an address for the input data from the A/D converter **76** so that the data is associated with the correct input channel.
The computer **20** has a phrase recognizer **86** connected to the microphone **40** and the processor **78**. The phrase recognizer **86** digitizes voice commands provided by the user through the microphone **40**. The voice commands are then processed to convert the spoken words into electronic form. The electronic words are typically generated by matching the user's speech with words stored within the computer **20**. In the preferred embodiment, the recognizer **86** is an electronic board with accompanying software that is marketed by SCOTT INSTRUMENTS of Denton, Tex. under the trademark 鈥淐oretechs Technology鈥?
The electronic words are provided to the processor **78**. The processor **78** compares a word, or a combination of words to predefined robot commands that are stored within a library in the memory **80** of the computer **20**. If a word, or combination of words match a word or combination of words in the library, the processor **78** provides output commands to the D/A converter **84** to move the robotic arm in accordance with the command.
[Figure FIG. 5] shows exemplary words and combinations of words that provide robot commands. A grammar process is performed to determine whether the voice commands satisfy certain conditions. The process contains a number of states advanced by the satisfaction of a condition. If the voice command provided by the user satisfies a first condition, then the process proceeds to the first state. If a condition of a next state is satisfied then the process proceeds to the next corresponding state, and so forth and so on. For example, to prevent a robot command from being inadvertently spoken, it is desirable to predicate all voice commands with a qualifier. For example, the qualifier may be a name given to the robot such as 鈥淎ESOP鈥? Therefore when the user provides a voice command, the process initially determines whether the spoken word is AESOP. If the spoken word is not AESOP then the process ends. The term 鈥渟top鈥?may be an exception to this rule, wherein the computer will stop arm movement when the user provides a simple 鈥渟top鈥?voice command.
If the spoken word is AESOP the process continues to state **1**. The process next determines whether the user has spoken a word that satisfies a condition to advance to states **2**-**6**. These words include 鈥渕ove鈥? 鈥渟tep鈥? 鈥渟ave鈥? 鈥渞eturn鈥? 鈥渟peed鈥? 鈥渢rack instrument鈥?and 鈥渢rack head鈥? The track instrument command is for a system which has the ability to move an endoscope to automatically track the movement of a second instrument that is inserted into the patient. The track head command may enable the system so that the endoscope movement tracks the user's eyes. For example, if the user looks to the right of the image displayed by the monitor, the robot will move the endoscope to move the image in a rightward direction. The move and step commands induce movement of the scope in a desired direction. The save command saves the position of the endoscope within the memory of the computer. The return command will return the scope to a saved position.
From states **2**-**6** the process will determine whether the user has spoken words that meet the next condition and so forth and so on. When a certain number of conditions have been met, the processor **78** will provide an output command to the D/A converter **84** in accordance with the voice commands. For example, if the user says 鈥淎ESOP move left鈥? the processor **78** will provide output commands to move the endoscope **12**, so that the image displayed by the monitor moves in a leftward direction. The microphone **40** phrase recognizer **86** and grammar process essentially provide the same input function as the foot pedal **50**, multiplexer **74** and A/D converter **76**.
The processor **78** can also provide the user with feedback regarding the recognized command through the speaker **42** or the monitor **18**. For example, when the user states 鈥淎ESOP move right鈥? after processing the speech, the processor **78** can provide an audio message through the speaker **42**, or a visual message on the monitor **18**, 鈥淎ESOP move right鈥? Additionally, the processor **78** can provide messages regarding system errors, or the present state of the system such as 鈥渟peed is set for slow鈥?
Referring to [Figure FIG. 6], the processor **78** typically computes the movement of the robotic arm assembly **16** in accordance with the following equations.


Math 00001:
```mathml
<math overflow="scroll">
<mrow>
  <mo>鈥?/mo>
  <mtable>
    <mtr>
      <mtd>
        <mtable>
          <mtr>
            <mtd>
              <mrow>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>a</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mn>3</mn>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>蟺</mi>
                  <mo>-</mo>
                  <mrow>
                    <msup>
                      <mi>cos</mi>
                      <mrow>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mn>1</mn>
                      </mrow>
                    </msup>
                    <mo>鈦?/mo>
                    <mrow>
                      <mo>(</mo>
                      <mfrac>
                        <mrow>
                          <msup>
                            <mi>x</mi>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                          </msup>
                          <mo>+</mo>
                          <msup>
                            <mi>y</mi>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                          </msup>
                          <mo>-</mo>
                          <mrow>
                            <mi>L</mi>
                            <mo>鈦?/mo>
                            <mstyle>
                              <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                            </mstyle>
                            <mo>鈦?/mo>
                            <msup>
                              <mn>1</mn>
                              <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                          </mrow>
                          <mo>+</mo>
                          <mrow>
                            <mi>L</mi>
                            <mo>鈦?/mo>
                            <mstyle>
                              <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                            </mstyle>
                            <mo>鈦?/mo>
                            <msup>
                              <mn>2</mn>
                              <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                          </mrow>
                        </mrow>
                        <mrow>
                          <mrow>
                            <mo>-</mo>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                          </mrow>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mi>L</mi>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mstyle>
                            <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                          </mstyle>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mn>1</mn>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mi>L</mi>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mstyle>
                            <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                          </mstyle>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mn>2</mn>
                        </mrow>
                      </mfrac>
                      <mo>)</mo>
                    </mrow>
                  </mrow>
                </mrow>
              </mrow>
            </mtd>
          </mtr>
          <mtr>
            <mtd>
              <mrow>
                <mi>螖</mi>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                  <msup>
                    <mi>cos</mi>
                    <mrow>
                      <mo>-</mo>
                      <mn>1</mn>
                    </mrow>
                  </msup>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mrow>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mfrac>
                      <mrow>
                        <msup>
                          <mi>x</mi>
                          <mn>2</mn>
                        </msup>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <msup>
                          <mi>y</mi>
                          <mn>2</mn>
                        </msup>
                        <mo>+</mo>
                        <mrow>
                          <mi>L</mi>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mstyle>
                            <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                          </mstyle>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <msup>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                          </msup>
                        </mrow>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mrow>
                          <mi>L</mi>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <mstyle>
                            <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                          </mstyle>
                          <mo>鈦?/mo>
                          <msup>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                          </msup>
                        </mrow>
                      </mrow>
                      <mrow>
                        <mrow>
                          <mn>2</mn>
                          <mo>路</mo>
                          <mi>L</mi>
                        </mrow>
                        <mo>鈦?/mo>
                        <mstyle>
                          <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                        </mstyle>
                        <mo>鈦?/mo>
                        <mn>1</mn>
                        <mo>鈦?/mo>
                        <msqrt>
                          <mrow>
                            <msup>
                              <mi>x</mi>
                              <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                            <mo>+</mo>
                            <msup>
                              <mi>y</mi>
                              <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                          </mrow>
                        </msqrt>
                      </mrow>
                    </mfrac>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                  </mrow>
                </mrow>
              </mrow>
            </mtd>
          </mtr>
          <mtr>
            <mtd>
              <mrow>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>a</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mn>0</mn>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                  <msup>
                    <mi>tan</mi>
                    <mrow>
                      <mo>-</mo>
                      <mn>1</mn>
                    </mrow>
                  </msup>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.6em" height="0.6ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mn>2</mn>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mrow>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mfrac>
                      <mi>y</mi>
                      <mi>x</mi>
                    </mfrac>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                  </mrow>
                </mrow>
              </mrow>
            </mtd>
          </mtr>
          <mtr>
            <mtd>
              <mrow>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>a</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mn>2</mn>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>a0</mi>
                  <mo>+</mo>
                  <mrow>
                    <mo>/</mo>
                    <mrow>
                      <mo>-</mo>
                      <mi>螖</mi>
                    </mrow>
                  </mrow>
                </mrow>
              </mrow>
            </mtd>
          </mtr>
        </mtable>
      </mtd>
      <mtd>
        <mrow>
          <mn>1</mn>
          <mo>)</mo>
        </mrow>
      </mtd>
    </mtr>
  </mtable>
</mrow>
</math>

```


where;
a**2**=angle between the second linkage arm **36** and the x axis.
a**3**=angle between the first linkage arm **28** and the longitudinal axis of the second linkage arm **36**.
L**1**=length of the second linkage arm.
L**2**=length of the first linkage arm.
x=x coordinate of the end effector in the first coordinate system.
y=y coordinate of the end effector in the first coordinate system.
To move the end effector to a new location of the x-y plane the processor **78** computes the change in angles a**2** and a**3** and then provides output signals to move the actuators accordingly. The original angular position of the end effector is provided to the processor **78** by the position sensors. The processor moves the linkage arms an angle that corresponds to the difference between the new location and the original location of the end effector. A differential angle 螖a**2** corresponds to the amount of angular displacement provided by the second actuator **34**, a differential angle 螖a**3** corresponds to the amount of angular displacement provided by the first actuator **30**.
To improve the effectiveness of the system **10**, the system is constructed so that the desired movement of the surgical instrument correlates to a direction relative to the image displayed by the monitor. Thus when the surgeon commands the scope to move up, the scope always appears to move in the up direction. To accomplish this result, the processor **78** converts the desired movement of the end of the endoscope in the third coordinate system to coordinates in the second coordinate system, and then converts the coordinates of the second coordinate system into the coordinates of the first coordinate system.
Referring to [Figure FIG. 2], the desired movement of the endoscope is converted from the third coordinate system to the second coordinate system by using the following transformation matrix:


Math 00002:
```mathml
<math overflow="scroll">
<mtable>
  <mtr>
    <mtd>
      <mrow>
        <mrow>
          <mo>(</mo>
          <mtable>
            <mtr>
              <mtd>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>螖</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <msup>
                    <mi>x</mi>
                    <mi>鈥?/mi>
                  </msup>
                </mrow>
              </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>螖</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <msup>
                    <mi>y</mi>
                    <mi>鈥?/mi>
                  </msup>
                </mrow>
              </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd>
                <mrow>
                  <mi>螖</mi>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <mstyle>
                    <mspace width="0.3em" height="0.3ex" />
                  </mstyle>
                  <mo>鈦?/mo>
                  <msup>
                    <mi>z</mi>
                    <mi>鈥?/mi>
                  </msup>
                </mrow>
