# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 07453227 B2
**Publication Date:** 2008-11-18
**Application Number:** 11613962
**Filing Date:** 2006-12-20

## Medical robotic system with sliding mode control

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**US Classification:** 31856811
**Number of Claims:** 42

## Abstract

A medical robotic system has a joint coupled to medical device or a slave manipulator or robotic arm adapted to hold and/or move the medical device for performing a medical procedure, and a control system for controlling movement of the joint according to user manipulation of a master manipulator. The control system includes at least one joint controller having a sliding mode control for reducing stick-slip behavior on its controlled joint during fine motions of the joint. The sliding mode control computes a distance to a sliding surface, computes a reaching law gain, and processes the distance and reaching law gain to generate a sliding mode control action that is in absolute value less that a maximum desired feedback control action. The sliding mode control action is then further processed to generate a feedback torque command for the joint motor.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1] illustrates a top view of an operating room employing a medical robotic system utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 2] illustrates a simplified side view of a robotic arm assembly that is usable with various aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 3] illustrates a block diagram of a master/slave control system utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4] illustrates a block diagram of a slave joint controller utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 5] illustrates a block diagram of a slave feedforward and feedback controller utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 6] illustrates a block diagram of a master feedforward and feedback controller usable in a slave joint controller utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 7] illustrates a block diagram of a sliding mode control usable in the slave joint controller, utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 8] illustrates a block diagram of an integration function usable in the sliding mode control, utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 9] illustrates a flow diagram of a sliding mode control method utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 10] illustrates a block diagram of a slave joint observer usable in a slave joint controller utilizing aspects of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 11] illustrates a block diagram of a master command observer usable in a slave joint controller utilizing aspects of the present invention.

### CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60/751,839 filed Dec. 20, 2005, which is incorporated herein by this reference.

### FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention generally relates to medical robotic systems and in particular, to a medical robotic system with sliding mode control.

### BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Medical robotic systems such as those used in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures offer many benefits over traditional open surgery techniques, including less pain, shorter hospital stays, quicker return to normal activities, minimal scarring, reduced recovery time, and less injury to tissue. Consequently, demand for minimally invasive surgery using such medical robotic systems is strong and growing.
Examples of medical robotic systems include the daVinci庐 Surgical System and the daVinci庐 S鈩?Surgical System from Intuitive Surgical, Inc., of Sunnyvale, Calif. Each of these systems includes a surgeon's console, a patient-side cart, a high performance three-dimensional (鈥?-D鈥? vision system, and Intuitive Surgical's proprietary EndoWrist鈩?articulating instruments, which are modeled after the human wrist so that when added to the motions of the slave manipulator holding the surgical instrument, they allow at least a full six degrees of freedom of motion, which is comparable to or even greater than the natural motions of open surgery.
The daVinci庐 surgeon's console has a high-resolution stereoscopic video display with two progressive scan cathode ray tubes (鈥淐RTs鈥?. The system offers higher fidelity than polarization, shutter eyeglass, or other techniques. Each eye views a separate CRT presenting the left or right eye perspective, through an objective lens and a series of mirrors. The surgeon sits comfortably and looks into this display throughout surgery, making it an ideal place for the surgeon to display and manipulate 3-D intraoperative imagery.
The patient-side cart typically includes three or more slave manipulators for holding and manipulating medical devices such as surgical instruments and image capturing devices for performing and viewing a medical procedure at a surgical site within a patient. To manipulate these medical devices, the surgeon's console also includes master input devices which may be selectively associated with the medical devices (and the slave manipulators holding the medical devices) to manipulate them. Since the movements of the master input devices and their associated medical devices are scaled, this allows the surgeon to perform intricate medical procedures with greater ease than with conventional open surgery. It may also allow the surgeon to perform medical procedures that are not even feasible using conventional open surgery techniques.
During very fine movement of the instruments during a medical procedure, however, corresponding movement of mechanical elements (such as joints, gears, spools, and other driven elements) used in moving the instrument or the slave manipulator holding the instrument may require fine motion velocities that induce stick-slip behavior in their motion. Since such behavior at the mechanical element level may be translated to the movement of their corresponding surgical instruments, this behavior may significantly diminish the ability of the surgeon to efficiently perform any medical procedure requiring fine manipulation of tissue, surgical sutures, needles etc., such as for example during an anasthomosis. Possible root causes for this problem include the presence of static friction (stiction) and the associated increase of dynamic friction (Coulomb friction) for velocities in the fine motions range. Due to the non-linear nature of this problem, and the specific requirements of medical robotic surgery, simple gain adjustments and/or the addition of dithering to a conventional proportional-integral-derivative (鈥淧ID鈥? joint controller may not acceptably resolve it.

### OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
Accordingly, one object of aspects of the present invention is a controller and method implemented in the controller for controlling a drivable mechanical element in a medical robotic system that reduces stick-slip behavior in velocity ranges corresponding to fine motions of the mechanical element.
Another object of aspects of the present invention is a controller and method implemented in the controller for controlling a drivable mechanical element in a medical robotic system without inducing audible chattering.
Still another object of aspects of the present invention is a controller and method implemented in the controller that exhibits over a population of medical robotic systems (and/or their selectively associated system components) conventionally desired control characteristics such as stability margins, responsiveness, and uniformity of performance (i.e., predictability) over the life of the medical robotic systems (and/or their selectively associated system components).
These and additional objects are accomplished by the various aspects of the present invention, wherein briefly stated, one aspect is a method for controlling a joint in a medical robotic system in response to user manipulation of a master input device, comprising: computing a distance from a sliding surface using at least a position error associated with commanded movement of the joint; computing a reaching law gain using the distance; computing a current state for an integrator using a prior state of the integrator and the distance; computing a product of the reaching law gain and the distance; limiting the product to be less that a maximum control action; modifying the current state of the integrator using the limited product so as to also limit a sum of the limited product and the current state of the integrator to be less than the maximum control action; computing a sliding mode control action by summing the product and the modified current state of the integrator; and processing the sliding mode control action to generate one or more command signals to drive the joint according to the user manipulation of the master input device.
Another aspect is a medical robotic system having a master input device, a plurality of joints coupled to corresponding of a medical device or a robotic arm for moving the medical device, and a processor responsive to user manipulation of the master input device to control movement of one of the plurality of joints, wherein the improvement comprises configuration of the processor to control such movement by: computing a distance from a sliding surface using at least a position error associated with commanded movement of the joint; computing a reaching law gain using the distance; computing a current state for an integrator using a prior state of the integrator and the distance; computing a product of the reaching law gain and the distance; limiting the product to be less that a maximum control action; modifying the current state of the integrator using the limited product so as to also limit a sum of the limited product and the current state of the integrator to be less than the maximum control action; computing a sliding mode control action by summing the product and the modified current state of the integrator; and processing the sliding mode control action to generate one or more command signals to drive the joint according to the user manipulation of the master input device.
Another aspect is a method for controlling a joint coupled to a medical device or a robotic arm adapted to move the medical device, in response to user manipulation of a master input device, comprising: computing a distance from a sliding surface using at least a position error associated with commanded movement of the joint; computing a reaching law gain as a function of the absolute value of the distance; computing a sliding mode control action by multiplying the reaching law gain and the distance; limiting the sliding mode control action to be less than a maximum control action; and processing the limited sliding mode control action to generate one or more command signals to drive the joint according to the user manipulation of the master input device.
Another aspect is a medical robotic system having a master input device, a joint coupled to a medical device or a robotic arm adapted to move the medical device, and a processor responsive to user manipulation of the master input device to control movement of the joint, wherein the improvement comprises the processor being configured to control such movement by: computing a distance from a sliding surface using at least a position error associated with commanded movement of the joint; computing a reaching law gain using the distance; computing a sliding mode control action by multiplying the reaching law gain and the distance; limiting the sliding mode control action to be less than a maximum control action; and processing the limited sliding mode control action to generate one or more command signals to drive the joint according to the user manipulation of the master input device.
Still another aspect is a medical robotic system comprising: a joint coupled to a medical device or a robotic arm adapted to move the medical device; and a controller configured to control movement of the joint by: computing a distance from a sliding surface using the following equation:


蟽=位路(*QC鈭扱L*)+(*VC鈭扸L*)^2^,


wherein 蟽 represents the distance, 位 is a parameter value, (QC鈭扱L) is a position error and (VC鈭扸L) is a velocity error associated with commanded movement QC of the joint; computing a sliding mode control action based at least in part on the distance to the sliding surface; and causing the joint to be moved at least partially in response to the sliding mode control action.

Yet another aspect is a medical robotic system comprising: a joint coupled to a medical device or a robotic arm adapted to move the medical device; and a controller configured to control movement of the joint by: computing a distance from a sliding surface, computing a reaching law gain using the following equation:


Math 00001:
```mathml
<math overflow="scroll">
<mrow>
  <msub>
    <mi>GAIN</mi>
    <mi>RL</mi>
  </msub>
  <mo>=</mo>
  <msup>
    <mrow>
      <mo>(</mo>
      <mfrac>
        <mrow>
          <mo>飿?/mo>
          <mi>蟽</mi>
          <mo>飿?/mo>
        </mrow>
        <mi>RS</mi>
      </mfrac>
      <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
    <mi>v</mi>
  </msup>
</mrow>
</math>

```



where GAIN~RL~represents the reaching law gain, 蟽 is the distance to the sliding surface, RS is a parameter value, and v is an exponential value between 0 and 1; computing a sliding mode control action based at least in part on the distance to the sliding surface and the reaching law gain; and causing the joint to be moved at least partially in accordance with the sliding mode control action.

Additional objects, features and advantages of the various aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of its preferred embodiment, which description should be taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[Figure FIG. 1] illustrates, as an example, a top view of an operating room employing a medical robotic system. The medical robotic system in this case is a minimally invasive robotic surgical system **100** including a Console (鈥淐鈥? utilized by a Surgeon (鈥淪鈥? while performing a medical procedure, such as a diagnostic or surgical procedure, with assistance from one or more Assistants (鈥淎鈥?, on a Patient (鈥淧鈥? who is lying down on an Operating table (鈥?*0**鈥?.
The Console includes a 3-D monitor **104** for displaying a 3-D image of a surgical site to the Surgeon, left and right manipulatable control devices **108**, **109**, a foot pedal **105**, and a processor **102**. The control devices **108**, **109** may include any one or more of a variety of input devices such as joysticks, gloves, trigger-guns, hand-operated controllers, or the like. The processor **102** may be a dedicated computer integrated into the Console or positioned next or near to it, or it may be broken up into a number of processing or controller components that are distributed in a distributed processing fashion throughout the System **100**.
The Surgeon performs a medical procedure by manipulating the control devices **108**, **109** (also referred to herein as 鈥渕aster manipulators鈥?and 鈥渕aster input devices鈥? so that the processor **102** causes slave manipulators of their respectively associated robotic arm assemblies **128**, **129** to manipulate their respective removably coupled surgical instruments **138**, **139** (also referred to herein as 鈥渢ools鈥? accordingly, while the Surgeon views the surgical site in 3-D on the Console monitor **104** as it is captured by a stereoscopic endoscope **140**.
Each of the tools **138**, **139**, as well as the Endoscope **140**, is conventionally inserted through a tool guide (not shown) into the Patient so as to extend down to the surgical site through a corresponding minimally invasive incision such as Incision **166**. The number of surgical tools used at one time and consequently, the number of robotic arms being used in the system **100** will generally depend on the medical procedure being performed and the space constraints within the operating room, among other factors. If it is necessary to change a tool being used during a procedure, the Assistant may remove the tool no longer being used from its robotic arm assembly, and replace it with another tool **131** from a Tray (鈥淭鈥? in the operating room.
So that the tools **138**, **139** may be manipulated at the surgical site, they preferably each have a wrist mechanism including three joints (or other drivable mechanical elements such as gears, spools, etc.) for controlling the orientation of the wrist mechanism, and an additional joint (or other drivable mechanical element) controlling the eventual grip or other end effector joint of the tool. For additional details on such a tool wrist and end effector mechanism (and the mechanical elements and other linkages driving them), see, e.g., commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 6,676,684 鈥淩oll-Pitch-Roll-Yaw Surgical Tool鈥? which is incorporated herein by this reference.
Each of the robotic arm assemblies **122**, **128**, **129** includes a slave manipulator and setup arms. The slave manipulators are robotically moved using motor controlled joints (also referred to herein as 鈥渁ctive joints鈥? in order to manipulate and/or move their respectively held medical devices. The setup arms may be manually manipulated by releasing normally braked joints (also referred to herein as 鈥渟etup joints鈥? to horizontally and vertically position the robotic arm assemblies **122**, **128**, **129** so that their respective medical devices may be inserted into their respective tool guides.
Preferably, the monitor **104** is positioned near the Surgeon's hands so that it will display a projected image that is oriented so that the Surgeon feels that he or she is actually looking directly down onto the operating site. To that end, images of the tools **138**, **139** preferably appear to be located substantially where the Surgeon's hands are located.
The processor **102** performs various functions in the system **100**. One important function that it performs is to translate and transfer the mechanical motion of control devices **108**, **109** to their respective slave manipulators of robotic arm assemblies **128**, **129** through control signals over bus **110** so that the Surgeon can effectively manipulate their respective tools **138**, **139**. Another important function is to implement various control system processes as described herein.
Although described as a processor, it is to be appreciated that the processor **102** may be implemented in practice by any combination of hardware, software and firmware. Also, its functions as described herein may be performed by one unit, or divided up among different components, each of which may be implemented in turn by any combination of hardware, software and firmware.
For additional details on the construction and operation of medical robotic systems such as described herein, see, e.g., commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 6,493,608 鈥淎spects of a Control System of a Minimally Invasive Surgical Apparatus,鈥?and commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 6,424,885 鈥淐amera Referenced Control in a Minimally Invasive Surgical Apparatus,鈥?which are incorporated herein by reference.
[Figure FIG. 2] illustrates, as an example, a side view of a simplified (not necessarily in proportion or complete) robotic arm assembly **200** (which is representative of the robotic arm assemblies **128**, **129**) holding a surgical instrument **250** (which is representative of tools **138**, **139**) for performing a medical procedure. The surgical instrument **250** is removably held in tool holder **240**. The robotic arm assembly **200** is mechanically supported by a base **201**, which may be part of a patient-side movable cart or affixed to the operating table or ceiling. It includes links **202**, **203** which are coupled together and to the base **201** through horizontal setup joints **204**, **205**.
The setup joints **204**, **205** in this example are passive joints that allow manual positioning of the arm **200** when their brakes are released. For example, setup joint **204** allows link **202** to be manually rotated about axis **206**, and setup joint **205** allows link **203** to be manually rotated about axis **207**. The setup arm or portion of the robotic arm assembly **200** includes these setup joints.
Although only two links and two setup joints are shown in this example, more or less of each may be used as appropriate in this and other robotic arm assemblies in conjunction with the present invention. For example, although setup joints **204**, **205** are useful for horizontal positioning of the arm **200**, additional setup joints may be included and useful for limited vertical and angular positioning of the arm **200**. For major vertical positioning of the arm **200**, however, the arm **200** may also be slidably moved along the vertical axis of the base **201** and locked in position.
The robotic arm assembly **200** also includes three active joints driven by motors. A yaw joint **210** allows arm section **230** to rotate around an axis **261**, and a pitch joint **220** allows arm section **230** to rotate about an axis perpendicular to that of axis **261** and orthogonal to the plane of the drawing. The slave manipulator of the robotic arm assembly **200** includes these active joints.
The arm section **230** is configured so that sections **231**, **232** are always parallel to each other as the pitch joint **220** is rotated by its motor. As a consequence, the instrument **250** may be controllably moved by driving the yaw and pitch motors so as to pivot about the pivot point **262**, which is generally located through manual positioning of the setup joints **204**, **205** so as to be at the point of incision into the patient. In addition, an insertion gear **245** may be coupled to a linear drive mechanism (not shown) to extend or retract the instrument **250** along its axis **263**.
Although each of the yaw, pitch and insertion joints or gears, **210**, **220**, **245**, is controlled by an individual joint or gear controller, the three controllers are controlled by a common master/slave control system so that the slave manipulator of the robotic arm assembly **200** may be controlled through user (e.g., surgeon) manipulation of its associated master manipulator.
[Figure FIG. 3] illustrates, as an example, a block diagram of a master/slave control system **300** for controlling movement of the slave manipulator of the robotic arm assembly **128** and consequently, the position and orientation of its attached tool **138**, as commanded by movement of the master manipulator **108** by a surgeon. A similar control system may also be provided for the slave manipulator of the robotic arm assembly **129** and its associated master manipulator **109**.
Both the master and slave manipulators include a number of linkages connected by joints so as to facilitate multiple degrees-of-freedom movement. As the surgeon moves the master manipulator **108** from one position to another during the course of performing a surgical procedure, sensors associated with the master manipulator joints provide information indicating such command movement in master joint space, and sensors associated with the slave manipulator joints provide information indicating slave manipulator and consequently, tool **138** movement in slave joint space for feedback purposes. In order to better detect and control fine movements of their respective joints (e.g., in the target velocity range of 0.0005 to 0.01 radians per second at the joint, including the motion during the transition from zero velocity to the velocity in the target range), high resolution encoders are preferably used for the joint sensors.
A master input processing unit **301** receives the information of the master joint positions, which are sampled at the control system processing rate (e.g., 1300 Hz in the present example), from the master joint sensors in the master manipulator **108**, and computes joint velocities from the sensed joint positions. A master forward kinematics processing unit **302** receives the master joint positions and velocities from the master input processing unit **301**, transforms them from master joint space to corresponding positions and velocities of the master frame (i.e., the frame associated with the master manipulator **108**) in Cartesian space relative to the eye reference frame (i.e., the reference frame associated with the position of the surgeon's eyes), using, for example, a Jacobian matrix and eye related information separately determined and provided in block **303**.
A scale and offset processing uni