# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 07574250 B2
**Publication Date:** 2009-08-11
**Application Number:** 10358608
**Filing Date:** 2003-02-04

## Image shifting apparatus and method for a telerobotic system

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**US Classification:** 600427
**Number of Claims:** 26

## Abstract

An input device of a teleoperator system can be operatively associated with an image of a surgical worksite. Movement of the image may correspond to movement of the input device so that the worksite image appears substantially connected to the input device. The operator can manipulate the worksite into a desired position, typically by repositioning of an image capture device. Dedicated input devices may be provided for a surgical instrument.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1] shows a three-dimensional view of an operator control station, or surgeon's console, and a surgical work station, or cart, of a telesurgical system in accordance with the invention, the cart carrying three robotically controlled arms, the movement of the arms being remotely controllable from the control station;
[Figure FIG. 2] shows, at an enlarged scale, a side view of a robotic arm and surgical instrument assembly of the surgical station shown in [Figure FIG. 1];
[Figure FIG. 3] shows, at an enlarged scale, a three-dimensional view of a typical surgical instrument of the system shown in [Figure FIG. 1];
[Figure FIG. 4] shows a schematic kinematic diagram corresponding to the side view of the robotic arm shown in [Figure FIG. 2], and indicates the arm having been displaced from one position into another position;
[Figure FIG. 5] shows, at an enlarged scale, a wrist member and an end effector of the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 3], the wrist member and the end effector being movably mounted on a working end of a shaft of the surgical instrument;
[Figure FIG. 6] shows a three-dimensional view of one of the master control devices of the control station shown in [Figure FIG. 1], the master control device including a hand-held part, or wrist gimbal, and an articulated arm portion on which the hand-held part is mounted;
[Figure FIG. 7] shows a schematic three-dimensional drawing indicating the positions of the end effectors relative to a viewing end of an endoscope on the surgical station and the corresponding positions of the master control devices relative to the eyes of an operator, typically a surgeon, at the control station;
[Figure FIG. 8] shows a schematic three-dimensional drawing indicating the position and orientation of an end effector relative to a camera Cartesian coordinate reference system at a viewing end of the endoscope;
[Figure FIG. 9] shows a schematic three-dimensional drawing indicating the position and orientation of a hand-grippable part or pincher formation, of one of the master control devices, relative to an eye Cartesian coordinate reference system at an image display or viewer of the control station;
[Figure FIG. 10] shows a block diagram indicating control steps of a control system of the surgical system, the control system being arranged to effect control between master control device input and corresponding surgical instrument movement output.
[Figure FIG. 11] shows a schematic view of switching of operative association from between one, or both, of the master controls and the end effectors to between one, or both, of the masters and the image displayed on the image display;
[Figure FIG. 12] shows a schematic view of a viewing end of an endoscope of the system and indicates freedoms of movement of the endoscope;
[Figure FIG. 13] shows an algorithm indicating steps employed in a control system for performing an image change in accordance with the invention;
[Figure FIG. 14] shows a schematic view of the master controls and indicates freedoms of movement of the hand-grippable parts of the master controls relative to opposed ends of master arms of the master controls on which the hand-grippable parts are mounted;
[Figure FIGS. 15A-15D] show schematic representations of an image viewed by a surgeon on an image display of the telesurgical system, the image revealing the two remote surgical instruments, which the surgeon is manipulating via the two master controls, in the performance of a surgical procedure;
[Figure FIG. 16A] shows a flow diagram indicating control steps employed when end effectors are operatively associated with the master controls and the end effectors are caused to perform movements in response to master control input;
[Figure FIG. 16B] shows a flow diagram which corresponds to [Figure FIG. 16A] and shows control steps employed when an endoscope is operatively associated with one, or both, master controls, and the endoscope is caused to move in response to master control input;
[Figure FIG. 17] shows a schematic diagram indicating freedoms of movement of a hand-grippable part of a master control relative to an opposed end of a master arm on which it is mounted;
[Figure FIG. 18] shows a schematic diagram indicating control steps employed to change an image displayed on an image display;
[Figure FIG. 19] shows a schematic diagram indicating a path along which an image captured by the endoscope is passed to the image display.

### CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09/457,406, filed Dec. 7, 1999, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,799,065, which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/111,711, filed Dec. 8, 1998, the full disclosures of which is incorporated herein by reference.

### BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
This invention relates to image shifting in a Telerobotic system, and more particularly, to robotically assisted methods and apparatus which are beneficial for use in surgery.
Minimally invasive medical techniques are aimed at reducing the amount of extraneous tissue which may be damaged during diagnostic or surgical procedures, thereby reducing patient recovery time, discomfort, and deleterious side effects. Many surgeries are performed each year in the United States. A significant amount of these surgeries can potentially be performed in a minimally invasive manner. However, only a relatively small percentage of surgeries currently use minimally invasive techniques due to limitations of minimally invasive surgical instruments and techniques currently used and the difficulty experienced in performing surgeries using such traditional instruments and techniques.
Advances in minimally invasive surgical technology could dramatically increase the number of surgeries performed in a minimally invasive manner. The average length of a hospital stay for a standard surgery is significantly longer than the average length for the equivalent surgery performed in a minimally invasive surgical manner. Thus, expansion in the use of minimally invasive techniques could save millions of hospital days, and consequently millions of dollars annually, in hospital residency costs alone. Patient recovery times, patient discomfort, surgical side effects, and time away from work can also be reduced by expanding the use of minimally invasive surgery.
Traditional forms of minimally invasive surgery include endoscopy. One of the more common forms of endoscopy is laparoscopy, which is minimally invasive inspection or surgery within the abdominal cavity. In traditional laparoscopic surgery a patient's abdominal cavity is insufflated with gas and cannula sleeves are passed through small (approximately 陆 inch) incisions in the musculature of the patient's abdomen to provide entry ports through which laparoscopic surgical instruments can be passed in a sealed fashion.
The laparoscopic surgical instruments generally include a laparoscope for viewing the surgical field and working tools defining end effectors. Typical surgical end effectors include clamps, graspers, scissors, staplers, and needle holders, for example. The working tools are similar to those used in conventional (open) surgery, except that the working end or end effector of each tool is separated from its handle by an approximately 12-inch long extension tube, for example, so as to permit the surgeon to introduce the end effector to the surgical site and to control movement of the end effector relative to the surgical site from outside a patient's body.
To perform surgical procedures, the surgeon typically passes these working tools or instruments through the cannula sleeves to the internal surgical site and manipulates the instruments or tools from outside the abdomen by sliding them in and out through the cannula sleeves, rotating them in the cannula sleeves, levering (i.e., pivoting) the instruments against the abdominal wall and actuating the end effectors on the distal ends of the instruments from outside the abdominal cavity. The instruments normally pivot around centers defined by the incisions which extend through the muscles of the abdominal wall. The surgeon typically monitors the procedure by means of a television monitor which displays an image of the surgical site via the laparoscopic camera. Typically, the laparoscopic camera is also introduced through the abdominal wall so as to capture an image of the surgical site. Similar endoscopic techniques are employed in, e.g., arthroscopy, retroperitoneoscopy, pelviscopy, nephroscopy, cystoscopy, cisternoscopy, sinoscopy, hysteroscopy, urethroscopy, and the like.
There are many disadvantages relating to such traditional minimally invasive surgical (MIS) techniques. For example, existing MIS instruments deny the surgeon the flexibility of tool placement found in open surgery. Difficulty is experienced in approaching the surgical site with the instruments through the small incisions. The length and construction of many endoscopic instruments reduces the surgeon's ability to feel forces exerted by tissues and organs on the end effector of the associated instrument. Furthermore, coordination of the movement of the end effector of the instrument as viewed in the image on the television monitor with actual end effector movement is particularly difficult, since the movement as perceived in the image normally does not correspond intuitively with the actual end effector movement. Accordingly, dexterity and sensitivity of endoscopic tools has been found to be an impediment to the expansion of the use of minimally invasive surgery.
Minimally invasive telesurgical systems for use in surgery have been and are still being developed to increase a surgeon's dexterity as well as to permit a surgeon to operate on a patient in an intuitive manner. Telesurgery is a general term for surgical systems where the surgeon uses some form of remote control, e.g., a servomechanism, or the like, to manipulate surgical instrument movements, rather than directly holding and moving the tools by hand. In such a telesurgery system, the surgeon is typically provided with an image of the surgical site on a visual display at a location remote from the patient. The surgeon can typically perform the surgical procedure at the location remote from the patient whilst viewing the end effector movement during the surgical procedure on the visual display. While viewing typically a three-dimensional image of the surgical site on the visual display, the surgeon performs the surgical procedures on the patient by manipulating master control devices at the remote location, which master control devices control motion of the remotely controlled instruments.
Typically, such a telesurgery system can be provided with at least two master control devices (one for each of the surgeon's hands), which are normally operatively associated with two robotic arms on each of which a surgical instrument is mounted. Operative communication between master control devices and associated robotic arm and instrument assemblies is typically achieved through a control system. The control system typically includes at least one processor which relays input commands from the master control devices to the associated robotic arm and instrument assemblies and from the arm and instrument assemblies to the associated master control devices in the case of, e.g., force feedback, or the like.
To enhance the capabilities and acceptance of teleoperation systems, it is an object of the present invention to provide improved teleoperation methods, systems, and devices. It would be particularly beneficial to provide improved techniques for shifting an image shown to a system operator using a teleoperator system, especially for telesurgical applications. It would further be beneficial if these improved techniques enhanced an operator's control over the system while modifying an image. It is an object of this invention to provide a method of performing an image shift while inhibiting the loss of the surgical instruments from the field of view of the endoscope.

### BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of preparing to perform or performing a procedure at a worksite with a robotic system. The method comprises capturing an image of the site with an image capture device. The captured image is displayed on an image display to be viewed by an operator of the robotic system. The operator is permitted to manipulate a master control, causing an end effector to perform at least a part of the procedure at the site. The master control is selectively caused to be operatively associated with the displayed image, and the displayed image is changed in response to manipulation of the master control.
In another aspect, the invention provides a surgical system for performing a surgical procedure at a surgical site on a patient body. The surgical system comprises an image capture device for capturing an image of the surgical site. An image display is coupled to the image capture device for displaying the captured image to an operator of the surgical system. An instrument arm has a mounting formation defined at one end, with a surgical end effector operatively mountable on the mounting formation. A master control is often coupled to a control system, with the control system arranged to permit the master control to be operatively associated with the surgical end effector so as to cause the surgical end effector to move and perform at least a part of the surgical procedure in response to manipulation of the master control, and also to permit the master control to be selectively operatively associated with the displayed image to enable the displayed image to be changed in response to manipulation of the master control.
In another aspect, the invention provides a method for preparing for or performing a procedure. The procedure comprises manipulating an object at a worksite per instructions of an operator. The method comprises showing an image of the object to the operator using a display. An input device is manipulated with a hand of the operator and the image shown on the display is moved in response to the manipulation of the input device so that the image of the object shown to the operator appears substantially connected to the input device.
In yet another aspect, the invention provides a robotically assisted surgical system. The surgical system comprises a display and an image of a tissue shown on the display. An input device is movable relative to the display. A processor couples the input device to the display. The processor effects movement of the image on the display in response to movement of the input device so that the tissue appears substantially connected to the input device.
In yet another aspect, the invention provides a telerobotic system comprising a viewer and a camera positionable at a remote site. The camera is mounted on a robotic arm to enable it to be positionally adjusted at the remote site. The camera is operatively associated with the viewer to enable an image of the remote site to be displayed on the viewer. A slave instrument or tool is positionable at the remote site. The tool is mounted on a robotic arm to enable it to be worked at the remote site. A master control device is in close proximity to the viewer to enable it to be manipulated by a user of the system while the user is viewing the remote site through the viewer. The master control device can selectively establish control over the robotic arm of the camera and to the robotic arm of the slave instrument so that positional adjustment of the camera and working of the tool can be effected by the master control.
In a still further aspect, the invention provides, for use with a robotic system (including a viewer operatively associated with a remote camera arrangement so as to display an image viewed by the camera on the viewer, and at least two master control devices each of which is operatively connected to a remote instrument or tool so as to cause displacement of the instrument or tool in response to displacement of its associated master control device) a method of shifting the image relative to the instrument or tool. The method comprises locking the instruments at stationary positions and moving the master control devices relative to the viewer while movement of the master control devices relative to each other is restrained. The camera is caused to displace relative to the instruments while the instruments are held at their stationary positions in response to the master control devices being displaced relative to the viewer.
A still further aspect provides a robotic surgical system comprising an image capture device for viewing a surgical workspace. A display is operatively coupled to the image capture device to show an image of the surgical workspace adjacent a controller workspace. The master controller is movable in the controller workspace. A surgical end effector is disposed in the surgical workspace. A processor couples the master controller to the image capture device and to the end effector. The processor has a first operating mode effecting movement to the surgical end effector such that the end effector in the image follows movement of the master controller in the controller workspace. The processor also has a second operating mode effecting movement to the image capture device so that the surgical workspace in the image follows movement of the master controller in the controller workspace.
In yet another aspect, the invention provides a telerobotic system comprising a viewer, an image capture device coupled to the viewer to produce an image of a workspace, and a robotic arm having an end effector disposed in the workspace. A processor couples the image capture device to the robotic arm so as to maintain an image of the end effector within the image of the workspace.
Other features and advantages of the invention will appear from the following description in which the preferred embodiment has been set forth in detail in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Although this invention will now be described with reference to its application in the field of minimally invasive surgery, it is to be appreciated that the invention is not to be limited to use in this field only. It is envisaged that the invention can be applied in various fields using telerobotic systems. For example, the invention can be applied in telerobotic systems used to perform non-minimally invasive surgical procedures, or inspection procedures, or the like. The invention can also be applied in telerobotic systems used to handle hazardous substances, such as, nuclear fuel, nuclear waste, and the like. The invention can yet further be applied in telerobotic systems used in the manufacturing industry, for example, to assemble parts, to perform operations such as welding, and/or the like.
As used herein, objects (and/or images) appear 鈥渟ubstantially connected鈥?if a direction of an incremental positional movement of a first object matches the direction of an incremental positional movement of a second object (often as seen in an image). Matching directions need not be exactly equal, as the objects (or the object and the image) may be perceived as being connected if an angular deviation between the movements remains less than about ten degrees, preferably being less than about five degrees. Similarly, objects and/or images may be perceived as being 鈥渟ubstantially and orientationally connected鈥?if they are substantially connected and if the direction of an incremental orientational movement of the first object is matched by the direction of an incremental orientational movement of the second object (often as seen in an image displayed near the first object).
Additional levels of connectedness may, but need not, be provided. 鈥淢agnitude connection鈥?indicates substantial connection and that the magnitude of orientational and/or positional movements of the first object and second object (typically as seen in an image) are directly related. The magnitudes need not be equal, so that it is possible to accommodate scaling and/or warping within a substantially magnitude connected robotic system. Orientational magnitude connection will imply substantial and orientational connection as well as related orientational movement magnitudes, while substantial and magnitude connection means substantial connection with positional magnitudes being related.
As used herein, a first object appears absolutely positionally connected with an image of a second object if the objects are substantially connected and the position of the first object and the position of the image of the second object appear to match, i.e., to be at the same location, during movement. A first object appears absolutely orientationally connected with an image of the second object if they are substantially connected and the orientation of the first object and the second object appear to match during movement.
The invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying diagrams.
In [Figure FIG. 1] of the drawings, a minimally invasive telesurgical system, or robotically controlled surgical system, in accordance with the invention, is generally indicated by reference numeral **10**. The system **10** typically includes a control station, or surgeon's console, generally indicated by reference numeral **12**. The station **12** includes an image display, or viewer, **14**. An image of a surgical site is typically displayed on the image display **14**, in use. A support **16** is provided on which an operator, typically a surgeon, can rest his or her forearms while gripping two master controls, one of which is shown in [Figure FIG. 6] of the drawings, one in each hand. The master controls are positioned in a space **18** inwardly beyond the support **16**. When using the control station **12**, the surgeon typically sits in a chair in front of the control station **12**, positions his or her eyes in front of the viewer **14**, and grips the master controls one in each hand, while resting his or her forearms on the support **16**.
The system **10** further includes a surgical work station, or cart, generally indicated by reference numeral **20**. In use, the cart **20** is positioned in close proximity to a patient requiring surgery and is then normally caused to remain stationary until a surgical procedure to be performed by means of the system **10** has been completed. The cart **20** typically has wheels or castors to render it mobile.
The cart **20** typically carries at least three arms. One of the arms, which will be referred to as a camera arm **22**, is arranged to hold an image capture device **24**, e.g., an endoscope, or the like. The camera arm **22** defines opposed ends **22**.**1**, **22**.**2**. The endoscope **24** is typically releasably mounted on the one end **22**.**2**. The opposed end **22**.**1** of the arm **22** is connected to the cart **20**. The arm **22** is movable to vary a location of the endoscope **24** relative to the opposed end **22**.**1** of the arm **22**. Each of the other two arms, which will be referred to as instrument arms **26**, **26**, is arranged to hold a surgical instrument **28**. The surgical instruments typically define end effectors, as described in greater detail below, for performing surgical tasks during a surgical procedure performed by means of the system **10**. Each arm **26**, **26** defines opposed ends **26**.**1**, **26**.**2**. The instruments, and accordingly also the end effectors, are typically releasably mounted on the ends **26**.**2**, **26**.**2**. The opposed ends **26**.**1**, **26**.**1** of the arms **26**, **26** are connected to the cart **20**. The arms are movable to vary locations of the end effectors relative to the opposed ends **26**.**1**, **26**.**1** of the arms **26**, **26**.
The endoscope **24** has an o