# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 07607440 B2
**Publication Date:** 2009-10-27
**Application Number:** 10165413
**Filing Date:** 2002-06-06

## Methods and apparatus for surgical planning

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**US Classification:** 128898
**Number of Claims:** 29

## Abstract

Methods and apparatus for enhancing surgical planning provide enhanced planning of entry port placement and/or robot position for laparoscopic, robotic, and other minimally invasive surgery. Various embodiments may be used in robotic surgery systems to identify advantageous entry ports for multiple robotic surgical tools into a patient to access a surgical site. Generally, data such as imaging data is processed and used to create a model of a surgical site, which can then be used to select advantageous entry port sites for two or more surgical tools based on multiple criteria. Advantageous robot positioning may also be determined, based on the entry port locations and other factors. Validation and simulation may then be provided to ensure feasibility of the selected port placements and/or robot positions. Such methods, apparatus, and systems may also be used in non-surgical contexts, such as for robotic port placement in munitions diffusion or hazardous waste handling.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1] is an overhead view of a robotic surgical system for use in an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 2] is a perspective view of a master control workstation and a patient-side cart having three robotic manipulator arms for use in the system of [Figure FIG. 1].
[Figure FIG. 3] is a flow diagram of a method for enhancing port placement in robotic operations according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4] is a flow diagram of the preliminary data processing stage of a method as in [Figure FIG. 3] according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 5] is a line diagram showing various angles between an entry port location and a target area according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 6] is a diagram of an internal collision detection logic used in an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 7]*a*is a side view of an experimental validation of the results of a surgical procedure using methods and apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 7]*b*is a close-up perspective view of the validation in [Figure FIG. 7]*a.*
[Figure FIG. 7]*c*is a side view of a computer validation of a surgical procedure as shown in [Figure FIG. 7]*a.*
[Figure FIG. 7]*d*is a perspective view of a computer validation of a surgical procedure as shown in [Figure FIG. 7]*b.*
[Figure FIG. 8]*a*is a screen shot side view of a computer interface for simulation of a surgical procedure according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 8]*b*is a screen shot perspective view of a computer interface for simulation of a surgical procedure according to an embodiment of the present invention.

### CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This non-provisional application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60/296,808, filed Jun. 7, 2001, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

### BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
The present invention generally relates to methods and apparatus for enhancing surgical planning. More specifically, the invention relates to methods and apparatus for planning, validating and simulating port placement for minimally invasive surgery, such as laparoscopic and/or robotic surgery.
Minimally invasive surgical techniques generally reduce the amount of extraneous tissue damage during surgical procedures, thereby reducing patient recovery time, discomfort, and deleterious side effects. One effect of minimally invasive surgery, for example, is reduced post-operative hospital recovery times. Because the average hospital stay for a standard surgery is typically significantly longer than the average stay for an analogous minimally invasive surgery, increased use of minimally invasive techniques could save millions of dollars in hospital costs each year. Patient recovery times, patient discomfort, surgical side effects, and time away from work can also be reduced through the use of minimally invasive surgery.
In theory, a significant number of surgical procedures could be performed by minimally invasive techniques to achieve the advantages just described. Only a small percentage of procedures currently use minimally invasive techniques, however, because certain methods, apparatus and systems are not currently available in a form for providing minimally invasive surgery.
Traditional forms of minimally invasive surgery typically include endoscopy, which is visual examination of a hollow space with a viewing instrument called an endoscope. Minimally invasive surgery with endoscopy may be used in many different areas in the human body for many different procedures, such as in laparoscopy, which is visual examination and/or treatment of the abdominal cavity, or in minimally invasive heart surgery, such as coronary artery bypass grafting. In traditional laparoscopic surgery, for example, a patient's abdominal cavity is insufflated with gas and cannula sleeves (or 鈥渆ntry ports鈥? are passed through small incisions in the musculature of the patient's abdomen to provide entry ports through which laparoscopic surgical instruments can be passed in a sealed fashion. Such incisions are typically about 陆 inch (about 12 mm) in length.
Minimally invasive surgical instruments generally include an endoscope for viewing the surgical field and working tools defining end effectors. Typical surgical end effectors include clamps, graspers, scissors, staplers, and needle holders, for example. The working tools are similar to those used in conventional (open) surgery, except that the working end or end effector of each tool is separated from its handle by a long extension tube, typically of about 12 inches (about 300 mm) in length, for example, so as to permit the surgeon to introduce the end effector to the surgical site and to control movement of the end effector relative to the surgical site from outside a patient's body.
To perform a minimally invasive surgical procedure, a surgeon typically passes the working tools or instruments through the entry ports to the internal surgical site and manipulates the instruments from outside the abdomen by sliding them in and out through the entry ports, rotating them in the entry ports, levering (i.e., pivoting) the instruments against external structures of the patient and actuating the end effectors on distal ends of the instruments from outside the patient. The instruments normally pivot around centers defined by the incisions which extend through the skin, muscles, etc. of the patient. The surgeon typically monitors the procedure by means of a television monitor which displays an image of the surgical site captured by the endoscopic camera. Generally, this type of endoscopic technique is employed in, for example, arthroscopy, retroperitoneoscopy, pelviscopy, nephroscopy, cystoscopy, cistemoscopy, sinoscopy, hysteroscopy, urethroscopy, and the like.
While traditional minimally invasive surgical instruments and techniques like those just described have proven highly effective, newer systems may provide even further advantages. For example, minimally invasive robotic (or 鈥渢elesurgical鈥? surgical systems have been developed to increase surgical dexterity and allow a surgeon to operate on a patient in an intuitive manner. Telesurgery is a general term for surgical operations using systems where the surgeon uses some form of remote control, such as a servomechanism or the like, to manipulate surgical instrument movements, rather than directly holding and moving the tools by hand. In such a telesurgery system, the surgeon is typically provided with an image of the surgical site on a visual display at a location remote from the patient. The surgeon can typically perform the surgical procedure at the location remote from the patient while viewing the end effector movement on the visual display during the surgical procedure. While viewing typically a three-dimensional image of the surgical site on the visual display, the surgeon performs the surgical procedures on the patient by manipulating master control devices at the remote location, which master control devices control motion of the remotely controlled instruments.
Typically, a telesurgery system can be provided with at least two master control devices (one for each of the surgeon's hands), which are normally operatively associated with two robotic arms on each of which a surgical instrument is mounted. Operative communication between master control devices and associated robotic arm and instrument assemblies is typically achieved through a control system. The control system typically includes at least one processor which relays input commands from the master control devices to the associated robotic arm and instrument assemblies and from the arm and instrument assemblies to the associated master control devices in the case of, e.g., force feedback, or the like. One example of a robotic surgical system is the DAVINCI鈩?system available from Intuitive Surgical, Inc. of Mountain View, Calif.
Improvements are still being made in laparoscopic, telesurgery, and other minimally invasive surgical systems and techniques. For example, choosing advantageous locations on a patient for placement of the entry ports continues to be a concern. Many factors may contribute to a determination of advantageous or optimal entry port locations. Factors such as patient anatomy, surgeon preferences, robot configurations, the surgical procedure to be performed and/or the like may all contribute to a determination of ideal entry ports for an endoscope and surgical tools. For example, ports should generally be placed in locations that allow a surgical instrument to reach the target treatment site from the entry port. They should also be placed to avoid collision of two or more robotic arms during a robotic procedure, or that allow free movement of human arms during a laparoscopic procedure. Other factors such as angles of approach to the treatment site, surgeon preferences for accessing the treatment site, and the like may also be considered when determining entry port placement.
If a robotic system is being used, robot positioning must also be determined, usually based at least in part on the port placement. Robotic placement will also typically depend on multiple factors, such as robotic-arm collision avoidance, angles of entry for surgical tools, patient anatomy, and/or the like.
Currently available systems generally do not provide methods or apparatus for determining advantageous entry port placements for laparoscopic, robotic, or other minimally invasive surgery. Although some systems may designate locations for entry ports, they typically do not base those locations on a set of factors such as those just mentioned. Furthermore, currently available systems also do not provide methods or apparatus for validating whether given entry ports will be feasible or for simulating a surgical procedure using the chosen entry ports.
Therefore, it would be advantageous to have methods and apparatus for planning advantageous port placement for laparoscopic, robotic, and other minimally invasive surgery. Such methods and apparatus would ideally also enhance planning of robot placement in robotic surgery. It would also be beneficial to have methods and apparatus which allow verification that a given set of entry ports will be feasible for a given surgical procedure. Ideally, such methods and apparatus would also allow surgeons to simulate a surgical procedure using a set of entry ports and to reject the entry ports if they proved unfeasible. Also ideally, the methods and apparatus would be adaptable for non-surgical uses, such as choosing port placement for robotic entry into non-human systems for various purposes, such as for bomb defusion or handling of hazardous materials.

### BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention generally provides methods, apparatus and systems for enhancing surgical planning. More specifically, the invention provides methods, apparatus and systems which enhance the planning of entry port locations, for entry of surgical tools into a defined volume, such as a body of a patient. The invention also generally provides for enhanced robot positioning in robotic surgery. Such planning is generally accomplished though a method of processing image data of a patient, selecting advantageous port placement based on the processed data, selecting a robot position based on the port placement, and validating port placement and/or simulating an operation using the selected port and robot placements. Thus, embodiments of the present invention provide for more accurate, repeatable robotic operations which require less manual planning from one operation to the next.
In one aspect, a method for identifying advantageous locations for placement of two or more entry ports for performing an operation within a defined volume having a closed surface includes: preparing a model of the defined volume from a set of acquired data; defining at least one target area within the defined volume; and determining from the model and the target area the advantageous locations for placement of the two or more entry ports for performing the operation, the advantageous locations being disposed on the closed surface of the defined volume. Optionally, the determining step may additionally include defining a list of possible locations for placement of each entry port and selecting an advantageous location for placement of each entry port from the list of possible locations for each entry port. In such embodiments, selecting the advantageous locations may be based at least in part on a set of criteria, the criteria including at least one of robot kinematics, robot kinetics, robot work range, deviation of tool entry angle from normal, organ geometry, surgeon defined constraints, robot force limitations, and patient force limitations. In other embodiments, selecting the advantageous location for placement of each entry port is based at least in part on a cost function, the cost function at least partially defined by at least one of minimizing deviations from a desired configuration, arm placement symmetry with respect to endoscope positioning, and minimization of tool entry angle with respect to surface normal.
In some embodiments, the operation comprises a surgical operation on a body of a patient and the defined volume comprises a volume of at least a portion of the body. In other embodiments, the operation comprises an operation on a munitions material, the operation including at least one of inspection, maintenance, disabling, and mechanical interaction. Typically, the acquired data comprises imaging data acquired using at least one of computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, though other modalities may be used.
As mentioned briefly above, some embodiments include determining a position for placement of a robot relative to the defined volume for performing the operation. In such embodiments, determining the position of the robot may be based at least in part on a set of criteria, the criteria including at least one of robot kinematics, robot kinetics, robot work range, deviation of tool entry angle from normal, organ geometry, surgeon defined constraints, robot force limitations, and patient force limitations.
As also mentioned above, some embodiments include providing a first simulation for enabling a user to simulate the operation, the first simulation based upon the model of the defined volume, the target area, and the advantageous locations of the entry ports. Where a simulation is provided, some embodiments will also enable the user to reject one or more of the advantageous locations based on the first simulation, determine different advantageous locations based on the user's rejection, and provide a second simulation for enabling the user to simulate the operation, the second simulation being based upon the model of the defined volume, the target area, and the different advantageous locations of the entry ports.
In another aspect, a method for identifying advantageous locations for placement of two or more entry ports for performing a surgical operation on a body of a patient includes preparing a model of at least a portion of the patient's body from a set of acquired data, using the model to define at least one target area within the body, defining a list of possible locations for each of the two or more entry ports, the possible locations being disposed on a surface of the body, and selecting an advantageous location for placement of each of the two or more entry ports from each list of possible locations.
In yet another aspect, a method for identifying advantageous locations for placement of two or more entry ports for performing a surgical procedure on a body of a patient includes defining a list of possible locations for each of the two or more entry ports, the possible locations being disposed on a surface of the body, selecting, based on a set of criteria, an advantageous location for placement of each of the two or more entry ports from each list of possible locations, verifying that the selected location for placement of each entry port is feasible, and providing means for simulating the surgical procedure. In some embodiments, the set of criteria includes at least two of robot kinematics, robot kinetics, robot work range, deviation of tool entry angle from normal, organ geometry, surgeon defined constraints, robot force limitations, and patient force limitations. In other embodiments, the set of criteria includes a cost function, the cost function at least partially defined by at least one of minimizing deviations from a desired configuration, arm placement symmetry with respect to endoscope positioning, and minimization of tool entry angle with respect to surface normal.
In another aspect, an apparatus for identifying advantageous locations for placement of two or more entry ports for performing an operation within a defined volume having a closed surface includes a computer software module for identifying the advantageous locations, and a computerized simulation device for simulating the operation using the computer software and the advantageous locations.
In yet another aspect, a system for performing a robotic operation within a defined volume having a closed surface includes a robot having at least two robotic arms, a computer coupled with the robot for at least partially controlling movements of the robotic arms, and computer software couplable with the computer for planning advantageous locations for at least two entry ports into the defined volume by the at least two robotic arms and for providing a simulation of the robotic operation. Optionally, the robot may include at least two robotic arms for attaching surgical tools and at least one robotic arm for attaching an imaging device. Also optionally, the computer may include a display device for displaying the simulation of the robotic operation.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The present invention generally provides methods and apparatus for enhancing planning of laparoscopic, robotic, and other minimally invasive surgery. More specifically, various embodiments provide methods and apparatus for planning advantageous locations for placement of two or more entry ports for accessing a defined volume, such as a patient, with surgical tools to perform a minimally invasive operation. In robotic surgery, robot position will typically also be planned. Additionally, many embodiments provide validation that selected entry port placements and/or robot positions will be feasible for a given operation. Many embodiments also provide simulation of a given operation, using selected entry port placements and/or robot positions, to allow a surgeon or other user to practice using the surgical system.
Although the following description focuses on planning port placement and robot position in a robotic surgery context, specifically in a heart surgery context, many other applications are contemplated within the scope of the invention. As mentioned above, for example, various embodiments may be used in other surgical contexts, such as non-robotic laparoscopic/abdominal surgery, arthroscopy, retroperitoneoscopy, pelviscopy, nephroscopy, cystoscopy, cistemoscopy, sinoscopy, hysteroscopy, urethroscopy, and the like. Furthermore, non-surgical applications are contemplated, including but not limited to handling, disabling, maintaining and/or the like of munitions, hazardous materials, and/or other suitable materials. Within the surgical context, methods and apparatus of the present invention may be used with many different systems for conducting robotic or minimally invasive surgery. One example of a robotic surgical system which may incorporate methods and apparatus of the present invention is the DAVINCI鈩?system available from Intuitive Surgical, Inc. of Mountain View, Calif. Many other surgical systems and apparatus may be used, however. Therefore, the following description is provided for exemplary purposes only and should not limit the scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.
Referring now to [Figure FIG. 1], one example of a robotic surgical system **10**, with which the methods and apparatus of the present invention may be used, includes a master control station **200** and a slave cart **300**. Optionally, any of several other additional components may be included in the surgical system to enhance the capabilities of the robotic devices to perform complex surgical procedures. An operator O performs a minimally invasive surgical procedure at an internal surgical site within patient P using minimally invasive surgical instruments **100**. Operator O works at master control station **200**. Operator O views a display provided by the workstation and manipulates left and right input devices. The telesurgical system moves surgical instruments mounted on robotic arms of slave cart **300** in response to movement of the input devices. As described in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/436,527, filed on Dec. 14, 2001, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, a selectively designated 鈥渓eft鈥?instrument is associated with the left input device in the left hand of operator O and a selectively designated 鈥渞ight鈥?instrument is associated with the right input device in the right hand of the operator.
As described in more detail in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/373,678 entitled 鈥?Camera Reference Control in a Minimally Invasive Surgical Apparatus*,鈥?filed Aug. 13, 1999 (the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference) a processor of master controller **200** will preferably coordinate movement of the input devices with the movement of their associated instruments, so that the images of the surgical tools, as displayed to the operator O, appear substantially connected to the input devices in the hand of the operator.
Optionally, an auxiliary cart A can support one or more additional surgical tools **100** for use during the procedure. One tool is shown here for the illustrative purposes only. A first assistant A**1** is seated at an assistant control station **200**A, the first assistant typically directing movement of one or more surgical instruments not actively being manipulated by operator O via master control station **200**, such as a tissue stabilizer. A second assistant A**2** may be disposed adjacent patient P to assist in swapping instruments **100** during the surgical procedure. Auxiliary cart A may also include one or more assistant input devices **12** (shown here as a simple joystick) to allow second assistant A**2** to selectively manipulate one or more surgical instruments while viewing the internal surgical site via an assistant display **14**. Preferably, the first assistant A**1** seated at console **200**A has the same image as the surgeon seated at console **200**.
Master control station **200**, assistant controller **200**A, cart **300**, auxiliary cart **300**A, and assistant display **14** (or subsets of these components) may allow complex surgeries to be performed by selectively handing off control of one or more robotic arms between operator O and one or more assistants. Alternatively, operator O may actively control two surgical tools while a third remains at a fixed position. For example, to stabilize and/or retract tissues, with the operator selectively operating 