# Modular force sensor

**Patent Number:** 08281670
**URL:** https://ppubs.uspto.gov/pubwebapp/static/pages/ppubsbasic.html

## Content / Abstract

# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 08281670 B2
**Publication Date:** 2012-10-09
**Application Number:** 12793014
**Filing Date:** 2010-06-03

## Modular force sensor

### Assignees
- **Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.** (Sunnyvale, CA, US)

**US Classification:** 73862045
**Number of Claims:** 21

## Abstract

A modular force sensor apparatus, method, and system are provided to improve force and torque sensing and feedback to the surgeon performing a telerobotic surgery. In one embodiment, a modular force sensor includes a tube portion including a plurality of strain gauges, a proximal tube portion for operably coupling to a shaft of a surgical instrument that may be operably coupled to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, and a distal tube portion for proximally coupling to a wrist joint coupled to an end portion.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1A] is a perspective view of a robotic surgical system and method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 1B] is a perspective view of a robotic surgical arm cart system of the robotic surgical system in [Figure FIG. 1A] in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 1C] is a front perspective view of a master console of the robotic surgical system in [Figure FIG. 1A] in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 2] is a perspective view of a surgical instrument including a modular force sensor apparatus operably coupled proximal (or inboard) to a wrist joint in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 3A] is a perspective view of a modular force sensor apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 3B] illustrates the modular force sensor of [Figure FIG. 3A] operably coupled to a shaft and end portion of a surgical instrument in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 3C] illustrates the modular force sensor of [Figure FIG. 3A] with a protective cover over a portion of the modular force sensor in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4A] is a perspective view of an inner tube of a modular force sensor apparatus in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4B] is a partial cross-sectional view of an outer tube/cover over the inner tube of [Figure FIG. 4A] of the modular force sensor apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4C] shows intervening material between the inner and outer tubes of [Figure FIG. 4B] of the modular force sensor apparatus and wires or fiber optic cables operably coupled to the modular force sensor apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure FIG. 4D] shows a partial cross-sectional view of the modular force sensor apparatus operably coupled proximal to (or inboard of) a wrist joint of a surgical instrument in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS AND PATENTS
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/553,303 (filed on Oct. 26, 2006, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,752,920), which claimed priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/755,157, filed Dec. 30, 2005), the entireties of which (including all references incorporated by reference therein) are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.
This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/755,108 filed Dec. 30, 2005, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/537,241 filed Sep. 29, 2006, U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/093,372 filed Mar. 30, 2005 (US20050200324 A1, published Sep. 15, 2005), and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,936,042, 6,902,560, 6,879,880, 6,866,671, 6,817,974, 6,783,524, 6,676,684, 6,371,952, 6,331,181, and 5,807,377, the full disclosures of which (including all references incorporated by reference therein) are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

### TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates generally to surgical robot systems and, more particularly, to an improved system, apparatus, and method for sensing forces applied to a surgical instrument.

### BACKGROUND
In robotically-assisted surgery, the surgeon typically operates a master controller to control the motion of surgical instruments at the surgical site from a location that may be remote from the patient (e.g., across the operating room, in a different room or a completely different building from the patient). The master controller usually includes one or more hand input devices, such as handheld wrist gimbals, joysticks, exoskeletal gloves, handpieces or the like, which are operatively coupled to the surgical instruments through a controller with servo motors for articulating the instruments' position and orientation at the surgical site. The servo motors are typically part of an electromechanical device or surgical manipulator arm (鈥渢he slave鈥? that includes a plurality of joints, linkages, etc., that are connected together to support and control the surgical instruments that have been introduced directly into an open surgical site or through trocar sleeves inserted through incisions into a body cavity, such as the patient's abdomen. Depending on the surgical procedure, there are available a variety of surgical instruments, such as tissue graspers, needle drivers, electrosurgical cautery probes, etc., to perform various functions for the surgeon, e.g., retracting tissue, holding or driving a needle, suturing, grasping a blood vessel, or dissecting, cauterizing or coagulating tissue. A surgeon may employ a large number of different surgical instruments/tools during a procedure.
This new method of performing telerobotic surgery through remote manipulation has created many new challenges. One such challenge is providing the surgeon with the ability to accurately 鈥渇eel鈥?the tissue that is being manipulated by the surgical instrument via the robotic manipulator. The surgeon must rely on visual indications of the forces applied by the instruments or sutures. It is desirable to sense the forces and torques applied to the tip of the instrument, such as an end effector (e.g., jaws, grasper, blades, etc.) of robotic endoscopic surgical instruments, in order to feed the forces and torques back to the surgeon user through the system hand controls or by other means such as visual display or audible tone. One device for this purpose from the laboratory of G. Hirzinger at DLR is described in 鈥淩eview of Fixtures for Low-Invasiveness Surgery鈥?by F. Cepolina and R. C. Michelini, *Int'l Journal of Medical Robotics and Computer Assisted Surgery*, Vol. 1, Issue 1, page 58, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. However, that design disadvantageously places a force sensor distal to (or outboard of) the wrist joints, thus requiring wires or optic fibers to be routed through the flexing wrist joint and also requiring the yaw and grip axes to be on separate pivot axes.
Another problem has been fitting and positioning the necessary wires for mechanical actuation of end effectors in as small a space as possible as relatively small instruments are typically desirable for performing surgery.
What is needed, therefore, are improved telerobotic systems and methods for remotely controlling surgical instruments at a surgical site on a patient. In particular, these systems and methods should be configured to provide accurate feedback of forces and torques to the surgeon to improve user awareness and control of the instruments.

### SUMMARY
The present invention provides an apparatus, system, and method for improving force and torque feedback to and sensing by the surgeon performing a robotic surgery. In one embodiment, a modular force sensor includes a tube portion including a plurality of strain gauges, a proximal tube portion for operably coupling to a shaft of a surgical instrument that may be operably coupled to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, and a distal tube portion for proximally coupling to a wrist joint coupled to an end portion.
Groups of axially oriented strain gauges are positioned on or near a distal end of an instrument shaft proximal to (or inboard of) a moveable wrist of a robotic surgical instrument via a modular apparatus to sense forces and torques at the distal tip of the instrument without errors due to changes in the configuration of the tip (such as with a moveable wrist) or steady state temperature variations.
Advantageously, the present invention improves the sensing and feedback of forces and/or torques to the surgeon and substantially eliminates the problem of passing delicate wires through the flexible wrist joint of the instrument. A force sensor apparatus may be manufactured, tested, and calibrated as a separate modular component and brought together with other components in the conventional instrument assembly process. In addition, it is possible to choose a material for the sensor structural member different from the material of the instrument shaft whose design considerations may compromise the mechanical properties required for the sensor.
The scope of the invention is defined by the claims, which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding of embodiments of the present invention will be afforded to those skilled in the art, as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof, by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.
Embodiments of the present invention and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures. It should also be appreciated that the figures may not be necessarily drawn to scale.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The present invention provides a multi-component system, apparatus, and method for sensing forces applied to tissue while performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient, particularly including open surgical procedures, neurosurgical procedures, such as stereotaxy, and endoscopic procedures, such as laparoscopy, arthroscopy, thoracoscopy and the like. The apparatus and method of the present invention are particularly useful as part of a telerobotic surgical system that allows the surgeon to manipulate the surgical instruments through a servomechanism from a remote location from the patient. To that end, the manipulator apparatus or slave of the present invention will usually be driven by a kinematically-equivalent master having six or more degrees of freedom (e.g., 3 degrees of freedom for position and 3 degrees of freedom for orientation) to form a telepresence system with force reflection. A description of a suitable slave-master system can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/517,053, filed Aug. 21, 1995, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
Referring to the drawings in detail, wherein like numerals indicate like elements, a robotic surgical system **10** is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in [Figure FIGS. 1A through 1C], robotic system **10** generally includes one or more surgical manipulator assemblies **51** mounted to or near an operating table O, and a master control assembly located at a surgeon's console **90** for allowing the surgeon S to view the surgical site and to control the manipulator assemblies **51**. The system **10** will also include one or more viewing scope assemblies and a plurality of surgical instrument assemblies **54** adapted for being removably coupled to the manipulator assemblies **51** (discussed in more detail below). Robotic system **10** usually includes at least two manipulator assemblies **51** and preferably three manipulator assemblies **51**. The exact number of manipulator assemblies **51** will depend on the surgical procedure and the space constraints within the operating room among other factors. As discussed in detail below, one of the assemblies **51** will typically operate a viewing scope assembly (e.g., in endoscopic procedures) for viewing the surgical site, while the other manipulator assemblies **51** operate surgical instruments **54** for performing various procedures on the patient P.
The control assembly may be located at a surgeon's console **90** which is usually located in the same room as operating table O so that the surgeon may speak to his/her assistant(s) and directly monitor the operating procedure. However, it should be understood that the surgeon S can be located in a different room or a completely different building from the patient P. The master control assembly generally includes a support, a monitor for displaying an image of the surgical site to the surgeon S, and one or more master(s) for controlling manipulator assemblies **51**. Master(s) may include a variety of input devices, such as hand-held wrist gimbals, joysticks, gloves, trigger-guns, hand-operated controllers, voice recognition devices or the like. Preferably, master(s) will be provided with the same degrees of freedom as the associated surgical instrument assemblies **54** to provide the surgeon with telepresence, the perception that the surgeon is immediately adjacent to and immersed in the surgical site, and intuitiveness, the perception that the master(s) are integral with the instruments **54** so that the surgeon has a strong sense of directly and intuitively controlling instruments **54** as if they are part of his hands. Position, force, and tactile feedback sensors (not shown) may also be employed on instrument assemblies **54** to transmit position, force, and tactile sensations from the surgical instrument back to the surgeon's hands as he/she operates the telerobotic system. One suitable system and method for providing telepresence to the operator is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/517,053, filed Aug. 21, 1995, which has previously been incorporated herein by reference.
The monitor **94** will be suitably coupled to the viewing scope assembly such that an image of the surgical site is provided adjacent the surgeon's hands on surgeon console. Preferably, monitor **94** will display an image on a display that is oriented so that the surgeon feels that he or she is actually looking directly down onto the operating site. To that end, an image of the surgical instruments **54** appears to be located substantially where the operator's hands are located even though the observation points (i.e., the endoscope or viewing camera) may not be from the point of view of the image. In addition, the real-time image is preferably transformed into a stereo image such that the operator can manipulate the end effector and the hand control as if viewing the workspace in substantially true presence. By true presence, it is meant that the presentation of an image is a true stereo image simulating the viewpoint of an operator that is physically manipulating the surgical instruments **54**. Thus, a controller (not shown) transforms the coordinates of the surgical instruments **54** to a perceived position so that the stereo image is the image that one would see if the camera or endoscope was located directly behind the surgical instruments **54**. A suitable coordinate transformation system for providing this virtual image is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/239,086, filed May 5, 1994, now U.S. Pat. No. 5,631,973, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
A servo control is provided for transferring the mechanical motion of masters to manipulator assemblies **51**. The servo control may be separate from, or integral with the console **90**. The servo control will usually provide force and torque feedback from the surgical instruments **54** to the hand-operated masters. In addition, the servo control may include a safety monitoring controller (not shown) to safely halt system operation or at least inhibit all robot motion in response to recognized undesirable conditions (e.g., exertion of excessive force on the patient, mismatched encoder readings, etc.). The servo control preferably has a servo bandwidth with a 3 dB cut off frequency of at least 10 hz so that the system can quickly and accurately respond to the rapid hand motions used by the surgeon and yet to filter out undesirable surgeon hand tremors. To operate effectively with this system, manipulator assemblies **51** have a relatively low inertia, and the drive motors have relatively low ratio gear or pulley couplings. Any suitable conventional or specialized servo control may be used in the practice of the present invention, with those incorporating force and torque feedback being particularly preferred for telepresence operation of the system.
Referring to [Figure FIG. 2], a perspective view is shown of a surgical instrument **54** including a modular force sensor apparatus **100** operably coupled to a distal end of a rigid shaft **110** and proximal to a wrist joint **121** in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. An end portion **120**, such as a surgical end effector, is coupled to force sensor apparatus **100** via the wrist joint **121**. A housing **150** is operably coupled to a proximal end of the rigid shaft **110** and includes an interface **152** which mechanically and electrically couples instrument **54** to the manipulator **51**.
Referring now to [Figure FIGS. 3A-3C] in conjunction with [Figure FIGS. 1A-1C] and **2**, an improved apparatus, system, and method for sensing and feedback of forces and/or torques to the surgeon will be described in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. [Figure FIG. 3A] shows a perspective view of modular force sensor apparatus **100** including in one embodiment a tube **102** including a number (e.g., 3, 4, 6, or 8) of strain gauges **104** (e.g., **104***a*and **104***b*) mounted to a surface of tube **102** and oriented axially (parallel to the lengthwise axis z of the tube). [Figure FIG. 3B] shows the modular force sensor apparatus **100** of [Figure FIG. 3A] operably coupled to a shaft **110** and end portion **120** of a surgical instrument in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. [Figure FIG. 3C] shows a cross-section view of modular force sensor apparatus **100** including a cover or sleeve **113** over tube **102**.
In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, force sensor apparatus **100** is a separately manufacturable module adapted for incorporation as part of the shaft **110** of laparoscopic surgical instrument **54** at a prescribed distance from the tip where there may be an articulated wrist with specialized jaws, cutting devices, or other end portion **120**. In one example, tube **102** may be made of a sufficiently strong material and may be spool shaped, including end portions **102***b*, **102***c*with a depressed portion **102***a*therebetween. Strain gauges **104** may be mounted on the surface of depressed portion **102***a*. Proximal tube portion **102***c*operably couples to the shaft **110** of surgical instrument **54** and distal tube portion **102***b*operably couples to a wrist joint **121**. In one example, the diameter of the completed force sensor apparatus matches the diameter of the instrument shaft, thus allowing the entire assembly of the instrument (including the coupled force sensor apparatus) to pass through a cannula or a seal without added friction or snagging.
Force sensor apparatus **100** includes a through passage **109** for end portion actuation cables or rods. End features **108** of end portion **102***b*insure secure mounting and angular alignment to the main instrument shaft and wrist/jaw/other end portion sub-assembly of the instrument. Wire leads or optic fibers **116** (e.g., shielded twisted pairs, coax, or fiber) from the strain gauges **104** may be inlaid into grooves **112** in proximal tube portion **102***c*of tube **102** and matching grooves in the shaft **110** of the surgical instrument **54**. The wire leads or optic fibers **116** may then be embedded in an adhesive potting compound such as epoxy.
In one embodiment, as illustrated in [Figure FIG. 3C], cover **113** is positioned over and encapsulates the mounted strain gauges **104** and other circuit elements on the surface of the tube **102**, thereby providing mechanical protection of the sensors. In one example, cover **113** is a mechanically protective woven sleeve potted on depressed portion **102***a*and is comprised of a woven resin impregnated fiberglass or metal braid electrical shielding.
As disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/755,108, filed Dec. 30, 2005, the contents of which have been previously incorporated by reference, strain gauges **104** may be spaced in a ring at intervals around the circumference of the tube **102** (e.g., 3 gauges at 120 degrees or 4 gauges at 90 degrees). The signals from the sensors are combined arithmetically in various sums and differences to obtain measures of three perpendicular forces (e.g., F~X~, F~y~, and F~z~) exerted upon the instrument tip and the torques about the two axes perpendicular to the shaft axis (i.e., axes x and y). In accordance with the present invention, the measurement of the forces is made independent of the orientation and effective lever arm length of an articulated wrist mechanism at the distal end of the instrument when two sets or rings of gauges are utilized. Forces exerted against end portion **120** are detected by the force sensing elements, which may be operably coupled to the servo control via an interrogator or a processor for notifying the surgeon of these forces (e.g., via master(s)). It is understood that by adding a second ring of similarly oriented gauges (e.g., two sets of 3 gauges or two sets of 4 gauges) at a different axial position on the tube, additional applied torque information (e.g., T~x~and T~y~) and elimination of dependence of the force data on instrument wrist length, orientation, and resulting jaw distance, may be obtained.
In one example, various strain gauges may be used, including but not limited to conventional foil type resistance gauges, semiconductor gauges, optic fiber type gauges using Bragg grating or Fabry-Perot technology, or others, such as strain sensing surface acoustic wave (SAW) devices. Optic fiber Bragg grating (FBG) gauges may be advantageous in that two sensing elements may be located along one fiber at a known separation, thereby only requiring the provision of four fibers along the instrument shaft.
Both fiber technologies require an interrogator unit that decodes the optically encoded strain information into electrical signals compatible with the computer control hardware of the robotic surgical system. A processor may then be used to calculate forces according to the signals from the strain gauges/sensors.
Additionally, there may be co-mounted unstrained gauges or Poisson strained gauges oriented in the circumferential direction adjacent to each axial gauge and incorporated in the bridge completion circuits to eliminate temperature effects. The strain gauge bridge circuits are completed in a manner to give the best signal for bending loads due to the lateral forces (F~X~and F~y~) exerted on the instrument tip jaws.
For resistive foil or semiconductor strain gauges, active components such as bare die op-amps and passive components such as secondary resistors or capacitors may be attached adjacent to the strain gauges connected by bond wires or optic fibers or thick film circuit traces in the manner of hybrid circuits to amplify, filter, and/or modulate the gauge output signals to reject noise sources. Such components are not needed for fiber optic gauges.
Surgical instrument **54** to which force sensor apparatus **100** couples may include a circumferentially coiled insulated flex circuit style service loop of parallel conductive traces at the proximal end of the instrument shaft **110** permitting the substantially free rotation of the instrument shaft while conducting the input gauge excitation power and output gauge signals to stationary housing **150** of the instrument **54**.
Housing **150** operably interfaces with a robotic manipulator arm **51**, in one embodiment via a sterile adaptor interface **152**.
Applicable housings, sterile adaptor interfaces, and manipulator arms are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/314,040 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/752,755, both filed on Dec. 20, 2005, the full di
