# Sensorizing robotic surgical system access ports

**Patent Number:** 10779856
**URL:** https://ppubs.uspto.gov/pubwebapp/static/pages/ppubsbasic.html

## Content / Abstract

# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 10779856 B2
**Publication Date:** 2020-09-22
**Application Number:** 15521015
**Filing Date:** 2015-10-14

## Sensorizing robotic surgical system access ports

### Assignees
- **COVIDIEN LP** (Mansfield, MA, US)

**Number of Claims:** 21

## Abstract

A robotic surgical system includes an access port having a plurality of sensors incorporated therein and a surgical instrument having an end effector for use with, and connection to a robot arm. The sensors measure a loading parameter between tissue and the access port when the shaft is inserted through the access port. The sensors wirelessly transmit signals indicative of the loading parameter to a processing unit. The estimated loads at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument are provided in real-time to a haptic feedback interface for communicating haptic feedback to a user. The haptic feedback increases or decreases in intensity in response to a specific event, occurrence, or operational characteristic related to the estimated loads.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Objects and features of the presently-disclosed methods and apparatus will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when descriptions of various embodiments thereof are read with reference to the accompanying drawings, of which:
[Figure FIG. 1] is a schematic diagram of a robotic surgical system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[Figure FIG. 2] is a schematic diagram of a surgical instrument inserted through an access port having one or more sensors embedded therein, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[Figure FIG. 3A] is a schematic diagram of an access port having a plurality of sensors incorporated on the inner surface of the access port, and communicating with a processing unit of the robotic surgical system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[Figure FIG. 3B] is a schematic diagram of an access port having a plurality of sensors incorporated within the walls of the access port, and communicating with a processing unit of the robotic surgical system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[Figure FIG. 4] is a schematic diagram illustrating the surgical instrument approaching an access port having one or more sensors embedded therein, the surgical instrument attached to a robot arm of the robotic surgical system, in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application is a U.S. National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 搂 371(a) of International Patent Application Serial No. PCT/US2015/055456, filed Oct. 14, 2015, which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62/068,040, filed Oct. 24, 2014, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

### BACKGROUND
Robotic surgical systems have been used in minimally invasive medical procedures. Some robotic surgical systems include a console supporting a robot arm, and at least one surgical instrument, such as a forceps or a grasping tool including jaws for capturing tissue therebetween. The at least one surgical instrument is mounted to the robot arm. During a medical procedure, the surgical instrument is inserted into a small incision (e.g., via a cannula) or a natural orifice of a patient to position the surgical instrument at a work site within the body of the patient.
Prior to or during use of the robotic surgical system, surgical instruments are selected and connected to the instrument drive units of each robot arm. For proper installation to be completed, certain connecting features of the surgical instrument must be matingly engaged to corresponding connecting features of the instrument drive unit. Once these features are matingly engaged, the instrument drive unit drives the actuation of the surgical instrument. The tip of the surgical instrument experiences forces and torques when the surgical instrument is driven by the drive unit.
Traditional robotic surgical systems measure the forces and torques on a tip of a surgical instrument held by the robot arm (or robot end effector) by placing sensors at the tip of the surgical instrument. This methodology requires modifying the surgical instrument to incorporate the sensors in the surgical instrument, and in particular, near the tip of the surgical instrument by running wiring through the surgical instrument and out through some form of connector. This methodology adds complexity and cost to the surgical instrument.
Therefore, there is a need for sensing or determining conditions at a tip of a surgical instrument without placing sensors directly on the tip of the surgical instrument.

### SUMMARY
According to an aspect of the present disclosure, a robotic surgical system is provided. The robotic surgical system includes an access port including a plurality of first sensors incorporated therein, the access port secured within tissue and a surgical instrument having an end effector for use with, and connection to a robot arm of the robotic surgical system, the surgical instrument including at least a shaft. The first sensors are configured to measure at least one loading parameter between tissue and the access port when the shaft is inserted through the access port.
In some embodiments, the first sensors transmit signals indicative of the at least one loading parameter to a processing unit of the robotic surgical system. The transmission of the signals may occur wirelessly or through wires and the transmission may occur continuously and in real-time.
In aspects of the present disclosure, the at least one loading parameter is related to at least one of a force or a torque applied at a tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument.
In another aspect of the present disclosure, the robotic surgical system includes a plurality of second sensors for measuring at least one of a force or a torque on the surgical instrument attached to the robot arm of the robotic surgical system. Measurements received from the plurality of first and second sensors are combined to estimate loads at a tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument.
In some instances, the estimated loads at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument are provided in real-time to a haptic feedback interface for communicating haptic feedback to a user. The haptic feedback increases or decreases in intensity in response to a specific event, occurrence, or operational characteristic related to the estimated loads.
In some embodiments, the end effector is controlled and/or articulated by at least one motor of a control device of the robotic surgical system, the at least one motor configured to receive the signals from the plurality of first and second sensors to, continuously and in real-time, adjust loads applied at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument.
According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a surgical access port is provided. The surgical access port includes a body member having a proximal end and a distal end, a portion of the body member secured within tissue and a plurality of sensors embedded within the body member, the plurality of sensors configured to measure at least one loading parameter between tissue and the surgical access port.
In some embodiments, the plurality of sensors transmit signals indicative of the at least one loading parameter to a processing unit of a robotic surgical system mechanically connected to the surgical instrument. The transmission of the signals may occur wirelessly or through wires and the transmission may occur continuously in real-time.
Methods for estimating a load at a tip of an end effector of a surgical instrument mounted on a robot arm of a robotic surgical system are also described. A method may include quantifying an access port load of a surgical instrument access port from sensor data received from a sensor located between a tissue of a surgical patient coupled to the surgical instrument access port and a shaft of the surgical instrument in the access port. A determined tip load at the end effector of the surgical instrument may be adjusted based at least in part on the measured access port load.
Signals indicative of the access port load may be transmitted through wires or wirelessly from the first sensor to a processing unit of the robotic surgical system. The transmission of the signals may occur continuously and in real-time. The access port load may be related to at least one of a force or a torque applied at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument. A force and/or a torque on the surgical instrument attached to the robot arm of the robotic surgical system may be quantified from sensor data of a second sensor in the robot arm of the robotic surgical system. The quantifications received from the first and second sensors may be combined to compute the estimated load at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument. The estimated load at the tip of the end effector of the surgical instrument may be provided in real-time to a haptic feedback interface for communicating haptic feedback to a user.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A minimally-invasive procedure may be defined as any procedure that is less invasive than open surgery used for the same purpose. As it is used in this description, 鈥渆ndoscopic surgery鈥?is a general term describing a form of minimally-invasive surgery in which access to a body cavity is achieved through several small percutaneous incisions. While endoscopic surgery is a general term, 鈥渓aparoscopic鈥?and 鈥渢horacoscopic鈥?describe endoscopic surgery within the abdomen and thoracic cavity, respectively. Some examples of instruments used in minimally-invasive procedures include graspers, cutters, forceps, dissectors, sealers, dividers, or other tools suitable for use in the area of the anatomical structure of interest.
Embodiments of the presently disclosed apparatus will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings, in which like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding elements in each of the several views. As used herein, the term 鈥渄istal鈥?refers to that portion of the tool, or component thereof which is farther from the user while the term 鈥減roximal鈥?refers to that portion of the tool or component thereof which is closer to the user.
Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present disclosure. While certain embodiments of the present disclosure will be described, it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the embodiments of the present disclosure to those described embodiments. To the contrary, reference to embodiments of the present disclosure is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.
[Figure FIG. 1] is a schematic diagram of a robotic surgical system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
A medical work station is shown generally as work station **1** and generally includes a plurality of robot arms **2**, **3**, a control device **4**, and an operating console **5** coupled with control device **4**. Operating console **5** includes a display device **6**, which is set up, in particular, to display three-dimensional images, and manual input devices **7**, **8**, by means of which a person (not shown), for example a surgeon, is able to telemanipulate robot arms **2**, **3**, in a first operating mode, as known in principle to a person skilled in the art. Display device **6** may receive data or information through wires or in a wireless manner 鈥淏鈥?from at least one surgical instrument **100**.
Each of robot arms **2**, **3**, includes a plurality of members, which are connected through joints, and an attaching device **9**, **11**, to which may be attached, for example, surgical instrument **100** having an end effector, in accordance with any one of several embodiments disclosed herein, as will be described in greater detail below.
Robot arms **2**, **3**, may be driven by electric drives (not shown) that are connected to control device **4**. Control device **4** (e.g., a computer) is set up to activate the drives, in particular by means of a computer program, in such a way that robot arms **2**, **3**, their attaching devices **9**, **11**, and thus surgical instrument **100** executes a desired movement according to a movement defined by means of manual input devices **7**, **8**. Control device **4** may also be set up in such a way that it regulates the movement of robot arms **2**, **3**, and/or of the drives.
Medical work station **1** is configured for use on a patient **13** lying on a patient table **12** to be treated in a minimally invasive manner by means of surgical instrument **100**. At least a portion of surgical instrument **100** is configured to be inserted into tissue of patient **13** via an access port **105**. Medical work station **1** may also include more than two robot arms **2**, **3**, the additional robot arms likewise being connected to control device **4** and being telemanipulatable by means of operating console **5**. Medical work station **1** may include a database **14**, in particular coupled to with control device **4**, in which are stored for example pre-operative data from living being **13** and/or anatomical atlases.
Operating console **5** further includes a processing unit **15**. Processing unit **15** may be a controller. The controller can be a, microcontroller, a system on chip (SOC), field programmable gate array (FPGA), etc. The controller may be provided as a single integrated circuit (IC) chip which may be mounted on a single printed circuit board (PCB). Alternatively, the various circuit components of the controller can be provided as one or more integrated circuit chips. That is, the various circuit components are located on one or more integrated circuit chips.
Processing unit **15** may include any type of computing device, computational circuit, or any type of processor or processing circuit capable of executing a series of instructions that are stored in a memory, e.g., storage device and/or external device. In some embodiments, a haptic user interface **17**, described below, may be communicatively coupled to processing unit **15**. In some embodiments, processing unit **15** may be configured to execute a set of programmed instructions for performing the functionality of control device or controller **4**. Processing unit **15** may additionally, or alternatively, be configured to execute a set of programmed instructions for performing a method of controlling endoscopic instruments using a port assembly **105**, as disclosed herein.
The haptic feedback may be used in conjunction with the auditory and visual feedback or in lieu thereof to avoid confusion with the operating room equipment which relies on audio and visual feedback. Haptic interface **17** may be an asynchronous motor that vibrates in a pulsating manner. In one embodiment, the vibrations are at a frequency of about 30 Hz or above providing a displacement having an amplitude of 1.5 mm or lower to limit the vibratory effects from reaching a loading unit. It is also envisioned that haptic feedback interface **17** includes different colors and/or intensities of text on screen and/or on switches for further differentiation between the displayed items. The visual, auditory or haptic feedback can be increased or decreased in intensity. For example, the intensity of the feedback may be used to indicate that the forces on the instrument are becoming excessive.
For example, user feedback may be included in the form of pulsed patterns of light, acoustic feedback (e.g., buzzers, bells or beeps that may be sounded at selected time intervals), verbal feedback, and/or haptic vibratory feedback (such as an asynchronous motor or solenoids), for example. The visual, auditory, or haptic feedback can be increased or decreased in intensity. In embodiments, the intensity of the feedback may be used to indicate that the forces on the instrument are becoming excessive.
[Figure FIG. 2] shows surgical instrument **100** inserted through port assembly **105**, according to the present disclosure. Port assembly or access port **105** generally includes a body **110**. Body **110** of port assembly **105** includes an exterior surface **111**, an interior surface **113**, and an interior space **119** defined by interior surface **113**. Exterior surface **111** of body **110** is shown disposed in sealable contact with tissue **101** at an entry site into the patient's body cavity **102**. Body **110** is adapted to allow access into body cavity **102**, e.g., to allow access of instruments therethrough, and may include sealing elements or mechanisms to seal the opening into body cavity **102**, e.g., to prevent the escape of insufflation gas. Body **110** of port assembly **105** may be formed of any suitable material such as a metal, alloys, composite materials or any combination of such materials.
In some embodiments, port assembly **105** is coupled to a holding member **150**. Holding member **150** may be adapted to be attachable to a table or frame to provide support for port assembly **105**, e.g., to provide additional stability and/or reduce the weight of the tool on the patient's body. Port assembly **105** may be used with a wide variety of endoscopic instruments or other tools having a shaft suitably configured to be receivable within interior space **119** of port assembly **105**.
A plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, and **118***c*, are coupled to, or otherwise disposed in association with, body **110** of port assembly **105**. In some embodiments, the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*and **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, are pressure sensors. However, one skilled in the art may contemplate using a plurality of different sensors, as will be described below.
In [Figure FIG. 2], an embodiment of surgical instrument **100** is shown for use with various surgical procedures and generally includes a housing **210** and a shaft **220** extending distally from housing **210**, and an end-effector assembly **22**. Shaft **220** has a distal end **16** configured to mechanically engage end-effector assembly **22** and a proximal end **14** configured to mechanically engage housing assembly **210**. Surgical instrument **100** may be removably supported on a robotic guide assembly **160**. Guide assembly **160** supports surgical instrument **100** in such a manner so as to enable translation of surgical instrument **100** relative to guide assembly **160**. Shaft **220** of surgical instrument **100** also includes a sleeve **125** disposed thereon.
End-effector assembly **22** generally includes a pair of opposing jaw assemblies **23** and **24** pivotably mounted with respect to one another. Jaw assemblies **23** and **24** move from an open position, where they are disposed in spaced relation relative to one another, to a clamping or closed position, where jaw assemblies **23** and **24** cooperate to grasp tissue therebetween.
A transmission line operably connects surgical instrument **100** to one of the attaching devices **9**, **11**. Surgical instrument **100** may alternatively be configured as a wireless device or battery-powered.
In operation, it is desirable to sense forces and torques applied to the tip of surgical instrument **100**, such as end effector **22** (e.g., jaws, grasper, blades, etc.) of robotic endoscopic surgical instruments, in order to feed the forces and torques back to the surgeon through the system hand controls or by other means, such as by a visual display or an audible tone. The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure provide for a system and method of indirectly measuring or estimating forces and torques applied to the tip of surgical instrument **100**.
For example, sleeve **125** disposed around shaft **220** of surgical instrument **100** is electrically connected to access port **105** via the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*. The plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, measure the forces and torques exerted thereon by surgical instrument **100** at tissue **101**, and generate load signal data. The measured load signal data, pertaining to forces and torques, may be sampled and then wirelessly transmitted 鈥淏鈥?to processing unit **15** of operating console **5** (see [Figure FIG. 1]). In accordance with the present disclosure, loads at the tip of surgical instrument **100** are estimated or derived or calculated based on sensor data/information collected by the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, embedded or incorporated within access port **105**. In this manner, sensors need not be placed at any distal portions of surgical instrument **100**.
Moreover, the load signal data or other information collected by the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, may be combined with additional sensor data. For example, as shown in [Figure FIG. 4], robot arms **2**, **3**, and attaching devices **9**, **11**, may include a plurality of sensors **200**. [Figure FIG. 4] provides a schematic diagram illustrating surgical instrument **100** approaching access port **105** having one or more sensors embedded therein. Sensors **200** monitor and measure forces and torques on attaching devices **9**, **11**, of robot arms **2**, **3**, of the robotic surgical system. The plurality of sensors **200** measure forces and torques passing through surgical instrument **100** at the location where it is mounted to attaching devices **9**, **11**; measure forces and torques on any motor drive mechanisms passing from the attaching devices **9**, **11**, to surgical instrument **100**; and measure the forces and torques between surgical instrument **100** and access port **105** when end effector **22** passes through tissue **101** toward body cavity **102**.
The sensor information collected from the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, embedded or incorporated within access port **105**, are combined with sensor information collected from the plurality of sensors **200**, mounted on attaching devices **9**, **11**, and robot arms **2**, **3**, in order to estimate loads (e.g., forces and torques) at the tip of surgical instrument **100**, without the need to place sensors directly on any distal portion of the surgical instrument itself.
Therefore, the measurements of the forces and torques at the distal end (or tip) of surgical instrument **100** are derived from data or information collected from the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, embedded or incorporated within or on access port **105** and the plurality of sensors **200** embedded on the robotic surgical system. The plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, **118***b*, **118***c*, embedded or incorporated within or on access port **105** continuously send, in real-time, the state of the loading between sleeve **125** of shaft **220** of surgical instrument **100** to processing unit **15** of the robotic surgical system. Such information is then combined with the state of the loading of surgical instrument **100** at attaching devices **9**, **11**, to the robotic surgical system, which is received by processing unit **15**, in order to estimate (at a constant rate) the surgical instrument loads. This combined information may then be provided to haptic user interface **17** (see [Figure FIG. 1]) to allow a user to continuously adjust the drive information and/or power information of surgical instrument **100**.
[Figure FIG. 3A] is a schematic diagram of an access port **105***a*having a plurality of sensors incorporated on the inner surface thereof, and wirelessly communicating with processing unit **15** of robotic surgical system **400**, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, whereas [Figure FIG. 3B] is a schematic diagram of an access port **105***b*having a plurality of sensors incorporated within the walls thereof, and wirelessly communicating with processing unit **15** of robotic surgical system **400**, in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure.
With reference to [Figure FIGS. 3A and 3B], the plurality of sensors **114***a*, **114***b*, **114***c*, **118***a*, *
