# Patent: US-11304771-B2

## Title
Surgical system with haptic feedback based upon quantitative three-dimensional imaging

## Abstract
A system is provided to provide haptic feedback during a medical procedure comprising: a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D); a surgical instrument disposed to deform a tissue structure; a haptic user interface device configured to provide an indication of tissue structure deformation in response to information indicative of the measure of tissue structure deformation; and a processor configured to produce a Q3D model that includes information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation and to provide the information indicative of the measure of tissue structure deformation to the haptic user interface device.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20190913
- **Grant Date**: 20220419
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PANESCU, DORIN, JONES, DANIEL H., ALLENBY, CHRISTOPHER B.
- **CPC Codes**: A61B1/044, A61B1/06, A61B2034/2059, A61B34/30, A61B34/20, A61B34/37, A61B34/32, A61B1/00055, A61B2017/00119, A61B34/76, A61B1/00, A61B34/10, A61B90/37, A61B1/04

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
       1. A method to provide haptic feedback during a medical procedure comprising:
 moving a surgical instrument across a surface of a tissue structure to impart a force to deform different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 capturing image information, which includes the surface of the tissue structure and the surgical instrument imparting the force to the tissue structure, indicative of deformation distances at the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 producing in a non-transitory memory device a quantitative three dimensional (Q3D) model that provides a map of measures of tissue structure deformation for the contact between the surgical instrument and the tissue surface at the different locations of the tissue structure, based upon the captured image information; and 
 producing haptic feedback indicative of the map of the measures of tissue structure deformation at the contact locations of the surface of the tissue structure. 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 ,
 wherein capturing the image information includes positioning a Q3D endoscope, having an imaging sensor array comprising at least three coplanar imaging sensors having coplanar overlapping fields of view, to capture the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure within the overlapping fields of view. 
 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1 ;
 wherein producing the haptic feedback includes producing a shape display indicative of the map of the measures of tissue structure deformation at the contact locations of the surface of the tissue structure. 
 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1 ;
 wherein producing the haptic feedback includes providing a three-dimensional contour that models at least a portion of the tissue structure. 
 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1 ,
 wherein producing the haptic feedback includes displacing one or more pins of a tangible user interface. 
 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1  further including:
 producing an alarm in response to a measure of tissue structure deformation that is outside of a clinically safe range. 
 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 6 ,
 wherein the alarm includes an audible alarm. 
 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 6 ,
 wherein the alarm includes a visual alarm. 
 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 1  further including:
 measuring a force imparted to the tissue structure during deformation of the tissue structure via a force sensor; and 
 providing a visual indication of force measured by the force sensor. 
 
     
     
       10. A method for determining force exerted onto tissue during a medical procedure comprising:
 moving a surgical instrument across a surface of a tissue structure to impart a force to deform different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 capturing image information, which includes the surface of the tissue structure and the surgical instrument imparting the force to the tissue structure, indicative of deformation distances at the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 producing in a non-transitory memory device a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) model that provides a map of measures of tissue structure deformation for the contact between the surgical instrument and the tissue surface at the different locations of the tissue structure, based upon the captured image information; and 
 determining a force exerted by the surgical instrument onto said tissue structure at at least one measured location of tissue structure deformation based upon, at least in part, a measure of tissue deformation at the at least one measured location of tissue structure deformation. 
 
     
     
       11. The method of  claim 10 ,
 wherein capturing the image information includes positioning a Q3D endoscope, having an imaging sensor array comprising at least three coplanar imaging sensors having coplanar overlapping fields of view, to capture the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure within the overlapping fields of view. 
 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 10  further including:
 producing an alarm in response to a determined force that is outside of a clinically safe range. 
 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 12  further including:
 wherein the alarm includes an audible alarm. 
 
     
     
       14. The method of  claim 12  further including:
 wherein the alarm includes a visual alarm. 
 
     
     
       15. A method for providing virtual tissue palpation during medical procedures comprising:
 moving a surgical instrument across a surface of a tissue structure to impart a force to deform different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 capturing image information, which includes the surface of the tissue structure and the surgical instrument imparting the force to the tissue structure, indicative of deformation distances at the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure; 
 producing in a non-transitory memory device a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) model that provides a map of measures of tissue structure deformation for the contact between the surgical instrument and the tissue surface at the different locations of the tissue structure, based upon the captured image information; and 
 determining tissue stiffness at at least one measured location of tissue structure deformation based upon, at least in part, a measure of tissue deformation at the at least one measured location of tissue structure deformation 
 producing haptic feedback indicative of the determined tissue stiffness at the at least one measured location of tissue structure deformation. 
 
     
     
       16. The method of  claim 15 ,
 wherein capturing the image includes positioning a Q3D endoscope, having an imaging sensor array comprising at least three coplanar imaging sensors having coplanar overlapping fields of view, to capture the different tissue surface locations of the tissue structure within the overlapping fields of view. 
 
     
     
       17. The method of  claim 15 ,
 wherein moving the surgical instrument includes automatically moving the surgical instrument to a series of locations across the tissue surface. 
 
     
     
       18. The method of  claim 15  further including:
 producing an alarm in response to a determined stiffness outside a clinically safe range. 
 
     
     
       19. The method of  claim 18 ,
 wherein the alarm includes an audible alarm. 
 
     
     
       20. The method of  claim 18 ,
 wherein the alarm includes a visual alarm.

## Description
[Description skipped to conserve BigQuery quota - see Bibliographic data/Abstract for summary]
