# Patent: US-10334227-B2

## Title
Quantitative three-dimensional imaging of surgical scenes from multiport perspectives

## Abstract
A system is provided that includes a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope that is inserted through a first port providing access to a body cavity to a first position at which a first 3D image of a first portion of an anatomical structure is captured from a perspective of said endoscope. A first Q3D model is produced based upon the captured first image. The endoscope is inserted through a second port providing access to the body cavity to a second position at which a second image of a second portion of the anatomical structure is captured. A second quantitative Q3D model is produced based upon the captured second image. The first Q3D model and the second Q3D model are combined together to produce an expanded Q3D model of the anatomical structure. The expanded Q3D model can be stored for further manipulation or can be displayed in 3D.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20150328
- **Grant Date**: 20190625
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PANESCU, DORIN, JONES, DANIEL H.
- **CPC Codes**: H04N23/56, H04N23/555, A61B2017/00119, H04N13/344, A61B90/37, A61B1/0005, A61B2090/364, G06T17/00, G06T2210/41, A61B34/37, H04N13/243, A61B17/00, A61B1/00, H04N5/2256, H04N2005/2255, A61B1/00009, A61B1/00194, A61B1/000094

## Claims
The invention claimed is: 
     
       1. A system for 3D imaging of a surgical scene comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope operable to image an anatomical structure within a body cavity; 
 at least one manipulator configured to insert the Q3D endoscope through a first port and later through at least a second port, the first port and the second port each providing access to the body cavity; and 
 at least one processor configured to: 
 produce a first Q3D model based upon a first image captured with the endoscope in the first port; 
 produce a second Q3D model based upon a second image captured with the endoscope in the second port; and 
 combine together the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model; 
 wherein the combining together includes: 
 determining a first position of the endoscope relative to a first coordinate system when the endoscope is in the first port; 
 determining a second position of the endoscope relative to a second coordinate system when the endoscope is in the second port; 
 using a kinematic relationship between the first position of the endoscope and the second position of the endoscope to align the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       2. A system for 3D imaging of a surgical scene comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope operable to image an anatomical structure within a body cavity; 
 at least one manipulator configured to insert the Q3D endoscope through a first port and later through at least a second port, the first port and the second port each providing access to the body cavity; and at least one processor configured to: 
 produce a first Q3D model based upon a first image captured with the endoscope in the first port, produce a second Q3D model based upon a second image captured with the endoscope in the second port, and 
 combine together the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model; wherein the combining together includes: 
 identifying common fiducial points within the first and second Q3D models; and geometrically transforming relative positions of the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model to each other so as to align the identified common fiducial points. 
 
     
     
       3. The system of  claim 1  further including:
 a 3D display configured to display an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       4. The system of  claim 1  further including: means to manipulate an expanded Q3D model. 
     
     
       5. The system of  claim 4  wherein the means to manipulate the expanded Q3D model are configured to execute quantitative measurements of distances between first and second surgical instruments or between a surgical instrument and an anatomic structure. 
     
     
       6. The system of  claim 1  further including;
 means to control the at least one manipulator to jitter a position of the endoscope to successive positions. 
 
     
     
       7. A method for three-dimensional (3D) imaging of a surgical scene comprising:
 illuminating an anatomical structure within a human body cavity with a light source; inserting a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, through a first port providing access to a body cavity to image a first portion of the anatomical structure; 
 capturing a first image; 
 producing a first Q3D model based upon the first image, 
 inserting said endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, through a second port providing access to same body cavity to image a second portion of the anatomical structure; capturing a second image; 
 producing a second Q3D model based upon the second image; and combining together the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model; wherein combining includes: 
 determining a first position of the endoscope relative to a first coordinate system when inserted in the first port; 
 determining a second position of the endoscope relative to a second coordinate system when inserted in the second port; and 
 using a kinematic relationship between the first position of the endoscope and the second position of the endoscope to align the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       8. A method for three-dimensional (3D) imaging of a surgical scene comprising:
 illuminating an anatomical structure within a human body cavity with a light source; inserting a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, through a first port providing access to a body cavity to image a first portion of the anatomical structure; 
 capturing a first image; 
 producing a first Q3D model based upon the first image; 
 inserting said endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, through a second port providing access to same body cavity to image a second portion of the anatomical structure; capturing a second image; 
 producing a second Q3D model based upon the second image; and combining together the first Q3D model and the second 03D model; wherein combining includes: 
 identifying common fiducial points within the first and second Q3D models; 
 and geometrically transforming relative positions of the first Q3D model and the second Q3D model to each other so as to align the identified fiducial points. 
 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 7  further including:
 inserting said endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, in a third port providing access to same body cavity to image a third portion of the anatomical structure; 
 capturing a third image; 
 producing a third quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) model based upon the third image; and 
 combining together the third Q3D model with the first and second Q3D models to produce an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       10. The method of  claim 7  wherein:
 combining the first and second Q3D models consists of stitching the first and second Q3D models in order to produce an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       11. The method of  claim 7  further including;
 storing an expanded Q3D model for further manipulation by a user. 
 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 11 ,
 wherein the further manipulation includes quantitative measurements of distances between other instruments or between instruments and anatomic structures. 
 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 7  further including:
 displaying in 3D an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       14. The method of  claim 7 ,
 wherein the endoscope is first coupled to one of first and second manipulators and is later coupled to another of the first and second manipulators. 
 
     
     
       15. The method of  claim 7 ,
 wherein the endoscope is first inserted through one of the first port and the second port coupled to one of first and second manipulators and is later inserted through the other of the first port and the second port coupled to another of the first and second manipulators. 
 
     
     
       16. The system of  claim 2  further including:
 a 3D display configured to display an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       17. The system of  claim 2  further including: means to manipulate an expanded Q3D model. 
     
     
       18. The system of  claim 17  wherein the means to manipulate the Q3D model are configured to execute quantitative measurements of distances between first and second surgical instruments or between a surgical instrument and an anatomic structure. 
     
     
       19. The system of  claim 2  further including:
 means to control the at least one manipulator to jitter a position of the endoscope to successive positions. 
 
     
     
       20. The method of  claim 8  further including:
 inserting said endoscope that is coupled to a manipulator, in a third port providing access to same body cavity to image a third portion of the anatomical structure; 
 capturing a third image; 
 producing a third quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) model based upon the third image; and 
 combining together the third Q3D model with the first and second Q3D models to produce an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       21. The method of  claim 8  wherein:
 combining the first and second Q3D models consists of stitching the first and second Q3D models in order to produce an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       22. The method of  claim 8  further including:
 storing the expanded Q3D model for further manipulation by a user. 
 
     
     
       23. The method of  claim 22 ,
 wherein the further manipulation includes quantitative measurements of distances between other installments or between instruments and anatomic structures. 
 
     
     
       24. The method of  claim 8  further including:
 displaying in 3D an expanded Q3D model. 
 
     
     
       25. The method of  claim 8 ,
 wherein the endoscope is first coupled to one of a first and second manipulators and is later coupled to another of the first and second manipulators. 
 
     
     
       26. The method of  claim 8 ,
 wherein the endoscope is first inserted through one of first port and the second port coupled to one of first and second manipulators and is later inserted through the other of the first port and the second port coupled to another of the first and second manipulators.

## Description
[Description skipped to conserve BigQuery quota - see Bibliographic data/Abstract for summary]
