# Patent: US-2017181808-A1

## Title
Surgical system with haptic feedback based upon quantitative three-dimensional imaging

## Abstract
A system is provided to provide haptic feedback during a medical procedure comprising: a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D); a surgical instrument disposed to deform a tissue structure; a haptic user interface device configured to provide an indication of tissue structure deformation in response to information indicative of the measure of tissue structure deformation; and a processor configured to produce a Q3D model that includes information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation and to provide the information indicative of the measure of tissue structure deformation to the haptic user interface device.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20150328
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PANESCU DORIN, JONES DANIEL H, ALLENBY CHRISTOPHER
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2034/2059, A61B34/76, A61B34/32, A61B34/30, A61B2017/00119, A61B34/20, A61B1/00055, A61B34/10, A61B34/37, A61B1/044, A61B1/06, A61B1/04, A61B1/00, A61B90/37

## Claims
1 . A system to provide haptic feedback during a medical procedure comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope having a field of view and operable to measure deformation of different locations of a tissue structure placed within its field of view;   a surgical instrument operable to deform different locations of the tissue structure placed within the Q3D endoscope field of view;   at least one processor configured to produce a Q3D model that provides a map of measures of tissue structure deformation at different locations of the tissue structure; and   a haptic user interface device configured to produce haptic feedback indicative of the map of measures of tissue structure deformation at least first and second various locations of the tissue structure.   
     
     
         2 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the haptic user interface device includes a shape display.   
     
     
         3 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the haptic user interface device includes an array of axially aligned pins.   
     
     
         4 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the haptic user interface device includes an source of variable electrotactile stimulation.   
     
     
         5 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the haptic user interface device includes a surgical instrument manipulation control device.   
     
     
         6 . The system of  claim 1  further including:
 an alarm source configured to produce an alarm in response to the processor providing information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation that is outside of a clinically safe range. 
 
     
     
         7 . The system of  claim 6 ,
 wherein the alarm source includes an audible alarm source and the alarm includes an audible alarm.   
     
     
         8 . The system of  claim 6 ,
 wherein the alarm source includes a visual display and the alarm includes a visual alarm.   
     
     
         9 . The system of  claim 1  further including:
 a force sensor associated with the surgical instrument to measure a force imparted to the tissue structure during deformation of the tissue structure; and 
 a visual display configured to provide a visual indication of force measured by the force sensor. 
 
     
     
         10 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the Q3D endoscope includes an imager.   
     
     
         11 . The system of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the Q3D endoscope includes a time-of-flight sensor.   
     
     
         12 . A system to provide haptic feedback during a medical procedure comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope having a field of view and operable to measure deformation at a location of a tissue structure placed within its field of view;   a surgical instrument operable to deform a location of a tissue structure placed within the Q3D endoscope field of view;   a haptic user interface shape display configured to,
 provide a three dimensional contour that models at least a portion of the tissue structure, and 
 provide an indication of tissue structure deformation at a location on a tissue structure surface in response to information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation at a tissue structure location; and 
   at least one processor configured to produce a Q3D model that includes information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation at a location on the tissue structure surface and to provide the information indicative of the measure of tissue structure deformation at the tissue structure location to the haptic user interface device.   
     
     
         13 . A system for determining force exerted onto tissue during medical procedures comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope having a field of view and operable to measure deformation of a tissue structure placed within its field of view;   a surgical instrument operable to deform a location of a tissue structure placed within the Q3D endoscope field of view; and   at least one processor configured to produce a Q3D model that includes information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation and to determine the force exerted by the instrument onto said tissue structure based upon, at least in part, said tissue deformation information.   
     
     
         14 . The system of  claim 13 ,
 wherein the processor produces an output indicative of said determined force.   
     
     
         15 . The system of  claim 14 ,
 wherein the output drives a display or a haptic feedback interface device.   
     
     
         16 . A system for providing virtual tissue palpation during medical procedures comprising:
 a quantitative three-dimensional (Q3D) endoscope having a field of view and operable to measure deformation of a tissue structure placed within its field of view;   a surgical instrument operable to deform a location of a tissue structure placed within the Q3D endoscope field of view; and   at least one processor configured to produce a Q3D model that includes information indicative of a measure of tissue structure deformation, to determine the tissue stiffness at said locations, provide a virtual palpation output based at least in part upon said determined tissue stiffness.   
     
     
         17 . The system of  claim 16 ,
 wherein the virtual palpation output drives a display or a haptic feedback interface device.   
     
     
         18 . The system of  claim 17  further including:
 a processor configured to automatically drive the surgical instrument to a series of locations within the field of view. 
 
     
     
         19 . The system of  claim 17  further including:
 means configured to provide an alert in response to the virtual palpation output exceeding a safe range, or increases or decreases with respect to a safe threshold.

## Description
[Description skipped to conserve BigQuery quota - see Bibliographic data/Abstract for summary]
