# Methods, systems, and devices relating to force control surgical systems

**Patent Number:** 09888966
**URL:** https://ppubs.uspto.gov/pubwebapp/static/pages/ppubsbasic.html

## Content / Abstract

# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 09888966 B2
**Publication Date:** 2018-02-13
**Application Number:** 14210934
**Filing Date:** 2014-03-14

## Methods, systems, and devices relating to force control surgical systems

### Assignees
- **Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska** (Lincoln, NE, US)

**Number of Claims:** 20

## Abstract

The various embodiments herein relate to robotic surgical systems and devices that use force and/or torque sensors to measure forces applied at various components of the system or device. Certain implementations include robotic surgical devices having one or more force/torque sensors that detect or measure one or more forces applied at or on one or more arms. Other embodiments relate to systems having a robotic surgical device that has one or more sensors and an external controller that has one or more motors such that the sensors transmit information that is used at the controller to actuate the motors to provide haptic feedback to a user.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Figure FIG. 1A] is a perspective view of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 1B] is an exploded perspective view of a portion of the robotic surgical device of [Figure FIG. 1A].
[Figure FIG. 2] is a perspective view of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to another embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 3A] is a side view of certain components of an arm of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 3B] is an exploded side view of certain components of the arm of [Figure FIG. 3A].
[Figure FIG. 3C] is a side view of certain components of the arm of [Figure FIG. 3A].
[Figure FIG. 4] is a schematic depiction of an electronics package relating to the output of data from a sensor, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 5A] is a perspective view of a controller, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 5B] is an exploded perspective view of a portion of the controller of [Figure FIG. 5A].
[Figure FIG. 5C] is a side view of the controller of [Figure FIG. 5A].
[Figure FIG. 6] is a schematic flow chart relating to a surgical system having an external controller and a robotic device, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 7] is a perspective view of an arm of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 8] is a perspective view of an arm of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to another embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 9] is a perspective view of an arm of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to a further embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 10A] is a perspective view of an end effector of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 10B] is a perspective view of an end effector of a robotic surgical device with a force sensor, according to another embodiment.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61/781,594, filed on Mar. 14, 2013 and entitled 鈥淢ethods, Systems, and Devices Relating to Force Control Surgical Systems,鈥?which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

### GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DGE-10410000 awarded by the National Science Foundation; Grant Nos. NNX09AO71A and NNX10AJ26G awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; and Grant No. W81XWF-09-2-0185 awarded by U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command within the Department of Defense. Accordingly, the government has certain rights in this invention.

### FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The various embodiments disclosed herein relate to robotic surgical systems and devices that use force and/or torque sensors to measure forces applied at various components of the system or device. Some exemplary implementations relate to various robotic surgical devices having one or more force/torque sensors that detect or measure one or more forces applied at or on one or more arms. Other embodiments relate to various systems that have a robotic surgical device and a controller, wherein the device has one or more sensors and the controller has one or more motors such that the sensors transmit information that is used at the controller to actuate the motors to provide haptic feedback to a user.

### BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Robotic surgical systems have surgical robotic devices or components positioned within a target cavity of a patient such that one or more arms or other components of such a device are configured to perform a procedure within the cavity. In these systems, an external controller is operably coupled to the surgical device such that a user can control or manipulate the device within the patient's cavity via the external controller. One disadvantage of such systems is the lack of tactile feedback for the user during the procedure. That is, the surgeon cannot 鈥渇eel鈥?the amount of force being applied by or on the arms or components of the surgical device within the patient's cavity in the same way that a surgeon would get some tactile feedback using standard laparoscopic tools (involving long tools inserted through trocars that are positioned into the cavity through incisions).
There is a need in the art for improved robotic surgical systems that can detect and/or measure forces applied at or on robotic surgical devices positioned within a patient and/or provide haptic feedback to the user at the external controller.

### BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
Discussed herein are various robotic surgical devices, each having one or more force or torque sensors to measure force or torque applied to certain portions of the device. Additionally, surgical systems are also disclosed, each having an external controller that works in conjunction with sensors on a robotic surgical device to provide haptic feedback to a user.
In Example 1, a robotic surgical device comprises a device body configured to be positioned through an incision into a cavity of a patient, a first shoulder component operably coupled to the device body, a first arm operably coupled to the first shoulder component, and a force sensor operably coupled with the first arm. The first arm is configured to be positioned entirely within the cavity of the patient. The force sensor is positioned to measure an amount of force applied by the first arm.
Example 2 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 1, wherein the force sensor is disposed between the device body and the first shoulder component.
Example 3 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 1, wherein the force sensor is disposed on the first arm.
Example 4 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 3, wherein the first arm comprises an upper arm component and a forearm component, wherein the force sensor is disposed on the forearm component.
Example 5 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 1, wherein the first arm comprises an upper arm component and a forearm component, wherein the forearm component is operably coupled to the upper arm component at an elbow joint, wherein the forearm component comprises a link operably coupled at a distal end to the force sensor and operably coupled at a proximal end to an elbow joint.
Example 6 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 5, further comprising an interface plate disposed between the force sensor and the link.
Example 7 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 1, wherein the force sensor is positioned to measure the amount of force applied at a distal-most point on the first arm.
In Example 8, a robotic surgical system comprises a robotic surgical device configured to be positioned into a cavity of a patient through an incision, a processor, and a user controller operably coupled to the processor. The robotic surgical device comprises a device body, at least one arm operably coupled to the body, and at least one sensor operably coupled to the device. The processor is operably coupled to the at least one sensor. The user controller comprises a base, an upper arm component operably coupled to the base at a shoulder joint, a forearm component operably coupled to the upper arm component at an elbow joint, and a grasper operably coupled to the forearm component at a wrist joint. The shoulder joint comprises a first actuator operably coupled to the processor. The elbow joint comprises a second actuator operably coupled to the processor. The wrist joint comprises a third actuator operably coupled to the processor. The at least one sensor is configured to sense force or torque at the robotic surgical device and transmit force or torque information to the processor. The processor is configured to calculate the force or torque being applied at the robotic surgical device and transmit instructions to actuate at least one of the first, second, or third actuator based on the force or torque, thereby providing haptic feedback at the controller.
Example 9 relates to the robotic surgical system according to Example 8, wherein the at least one sensor is a force sensor operably coupled to the at least one arm.
Example 10 relates to the robotic surgical system according to Example 8, wherein the at least one sensor is a torque sensor operably coupled to a joint of the at least one arm.
Example 11 relates to the robotic surgical system according to Example 8, wherein the at least one sensor is a force sensor positioned between the device body and the at least one arm.
Example 12 relates to the robotic surgical system according to Example 8, wherein the at least one sensor is a force sensor disposed within the device body.
In Example 8, a robotic surgical device comprises a device body configured to be positioned through an incision into a cavity of a patient, a first arm operably coupled to the device body, a force sensor, and an end effector operably coupled to the actuator. The first arm comprises an actuator disposed within the first arm. Further, the first arm is configured to be positioned entirely within the cavity of the patient. The force sensor is operably coupled to the actuator. The end effector is positioned at a distal end of the first arm.
Example 14 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 13, further comprising a push/pull rod comprising a distal portion and a proximal portion, wherein the push/pull rod is operably coupled to the actuator at the proximal portion and further wherein the push/pull rod is operably coupled to the end effector at the distal portion.
Example 15 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 14, wherein the force sensor is disposed proximal to the actuator and is operably coupled to the proximal portion of the push/pull rod.
Example 16 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 14, wherein the end effector is a grasper, wherein the grasper comprises an open configuration when the push/pull rod is urged to a distal position, and further wherein the grasper comprises a closed configuration when the push/pull rod is urged to a proximal position.
Example 17 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 14, wherein the force sensor is operably coupled to the push/pull rod such that the force sensor is positioned along the length of the push/pull rod.
Example 18 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 13, wherein the end effector is a grasper.
Example 19 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 13, further comprising a shaft operably coupled to the end effector and a first gear operably coupled to the shaft, wherein the actuator comprises a second gear operably coupled to the first gear.
Example 20 relates to the robotic surgical device according to Example 19, wherein actuation of the actuator causes the shaft to rotate, thereby causing the end effector to rotate.
While multiple embodiments are disclosed, still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized, the invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The various embodiments herein relate to a surgical device configured to detect and measure the amount of force applied by the arm of the device. In certain embodiments, the surgical device is a robotic device with a robotic arm and at least one force sensor configured to detect the amount of force. In one embodiment, the force that is measured is the amount of force applied to the distal end of the robotic arm (also referred to herein as the 鈥渆ndpoint鈥?. The information relating to the amount of force is then transmitted from the sensor to an external controller.
[Figure FIGS. 1A and 1B] depict one embodiment of a robotic surgical device **10** having a body **12** and two robotic arms **14**, **16**. The body **12** has two shoulders: a right shoulder **18** and a left shoulder **20**. The right arm **14** is coupled to the right shoulder, and the left arm **16** is coupled to the left shoulder **20**. In this implementation, the force sensor **22** is operably coupled to the body **12** between the body **12** and the left shoulder **20**. As best shown in [Figure FIG. 1B], the distal portion of the body **12** in one embodiment has a recessed portion **8** defined therein as shown, and sensor **22** is positioned in the recessed portion **8** and coupled to the body **12** in that recessed portion **8**.
Further, in certain implementations, the sensor **22** is coupled at its proximal end to a proximal connection component **24** and at its distal end to a distal connection component **26**. In the embodiment depicted in [Figure FIG. 1B], the proximal connection component **24** is a proximal recessed component or proximal female connection component (also referred to herein as a 鈥渃up鈥? **24** that is configured to receive and couple to the proximal end of the sensor. Further, the distal connection component **26** is a distal plate **26** have at least one projection (or 鈥減in鈥? **26**A disposed on the proximal face of the plate **26** that is configured to mate with an appropriate opening (not shown) in the distal end of the sensor **22**. In addition, the proximal connection component **24** has a projection **24**A on its proximal face that is configured to mate with an appropriate opening (not shown) in the body **12**. Plus, the distal plate **26** is configured to be received in a recessed portion or female connection **28** in the shoulder **20**. In this embodiment, the proximal connection component **24** and distal connection component **26** can provide a substantially rigid coupling of the sensor **22** to the body **12** and shoulder **20**. In alternative embodiments, the device **10** can have no shoulder components and the force sensor **22** can be positioned instead between the body **12** and the left arm **16** (rather than between the body **12** and the shoulder **20**).
According to one implementation, this configuration results in the sensor **22** being positioned close to the incision in the patient when the device **10** is positioned correctly for purposes of a procedure. Given the position of the force sensor **22** proximal to the shoulder **20**, it is understood that the sensor **22** will be subject to greater forces (due to the weight and length of the left arm **16**) in comparison to a sensor positioned somewhere along or in a portion of the arm **16** itself. It is further understood that the position of the sensor **22** will also result in the sensor's **22** force detection being influenced by any forces applied anywhere along the length of the arm **16**. The force sensor **22** is configured to detect and collect data relating to the amount of force being applied by the arm **16** during a procedure. In certain embodiments, the data is used to calculate the amount of force being applied at the most distal point on the arm **36** (the endpoint).
In one specific implementation, the force sensor **22** is a force torque sensor **22**. Alternatively, the sensor **22** can be any known force or torque sensor as described in further detail elsewhere herein.
An alternative embodiment of a robotic device **30** with a force sensor **40** is depicted in [Figure FIG. 2]. This device **30** also has a body **32** and right **34** and left **36** arms. This specific example is focused on the right arm **34**, but it is understood that the description applies equally to the left arm **36** as well. In this particular implementation as shown, the sensor **40** is positioned near the distal end of the forearm **34**B of the right arm **34**. The proximity of the sensor **40** to the endpoint **42** (where the force is being measured) allows for the use of a smaller sensor **40** (due to the lesser forces being applied to the sensor **40** due to its position), thereby requiring less space in the forearm **34**B and allowing for the possibility of a smaller forearm **34**B. Further, according to one embodiment, the positioning of the force sensor **40** so close to the endpoint **42** eliminates the influence of any forces applied to the arm proximal to the sensor **40**, thereby eliminating any irrelevant data created by such forces.
Alternatively, it is understood that the sensor **40** could be positioned anywhere on or within any of the components of either arm **34**, **36** of this device **30** or any other device described or contemplated herein. For example, with respect to the right arm **34**, a force sensor could be positioned within or on the right shoulder **38**, the right upper arm **34**A, or the right forearm **34**B. Alternatively, the sensor could be positioned on or within any part of the left arm **36**. Alternatively, the device **30** can have at least one sensor in each arm **34**, **36**. That is, in addition to the sensor **40** in the forearm **34**B of the right arm **34**, the device **30** can also have at least one sensor (not shown) on or in any component of the left arm **36**. In a further alternative, each arm **34**, **36** can have two or more sensors. In yet another implementation, the arms **34**, **36** can each have multiple sensors such that the sensors detect and collect redundant data. The redundant data can then be filtered using known methods such as, but not limited to, Kalman filtering, to provide a more robust calculation of the forces being applied by the surgical device **30** to the tissue of the patient.
In one embodiment, the force sensor (such as force sensors **22** or **40**) are force/torque sensors. According to another implementation, the force sensor is any sensor that can directly or indirectly measure the force at any point on the surgical device. Alternatively, any force sensor disclosed or contemplated herein can be any known sensor that can provide six degrees of force measurement. In another embodiment, the force sensor can be any known sensor that provides at least one dimension of force sensing. In a further alternative, the force sensor (including either of force sensors **22** or **40**) can be a collection, group, arrangement, or set of two or more sensors that can provide six degrees of force measurement. In yet another alternative, the force information can be gathered by measuring the amount of torque at one or more of the joints of the arm of the device. For example, in one embodiment, the amount of torque can be measured at both the shoulder joint (between the shoulder **38** and the upper arm **34**A) and the elbow joint (between the upper arm **34**A and the forearm **34**B) and that information can be used to calculate the amount of force being applied by the arm **34**. In one implementation, the amount of torque is measured using any known torque sensor. Alternatively, the torque can be measured by measuring the motor current or be measuring the windup in the joint (or joints) by comparing absolute position sensor data to incremental position data. In a further alternative, the amount of joint torque can be measured using any other known method for measuring torque.
It is understood that any of the sensors disclosed or contemplated herein can be commercially available sensors or custom sensors. In accordance with one implementation, the force sensor is a known force/torque sensor called Nano17鈩? which is commercially available from ATI Industrial Automation, located in Apex, N.C. Alternatively, the sensor is a known reaction torque sensor called TFF400鈩? which is commercially available from Futek Advanced Sensor Technology, Inc., located in Irvine, Calif.
The force data collected by the force sensor(s) (or torque data collected by the torque sensor(s)) can be transmitted to a processor present in the robotic device (such as device **10** or **30**) or in the external controller (not shown) and used to calculate the force being applied at the endpoint of the arm (or torque at the joint(s)). This will be described in further detail below. Known information relating to the dimensions of the robotic components and the kinematic arrangement of those components (such as the arm components) is incorporated into the calculation to determine the force at the endpoint (or torque at the joint(s)). Given that the calculation utilizes the dimensions of the components, the sensor(s) can be positioned anywhere along the robotic arm or even in the device body (as in [Figure FIG. 1]) so long as the position is taken into account in the calculation.
[Figure FIGS. 3A, 3B, and 3C] depict various aspects of a forearm **50** having a force sensor **52**, according to another implementation. The forearm **50** has a motor housing **54**, a front plate (also referred to herein as a 鈥渇aceplate鈥? **56**, two motors **58**, **60**, and an end effector **62** which is a grasper tool **62**. The motor housing **54** has the two motors **58**, **60** at least partially disposed therein and is coupled at its distal end to the front plate **56**. The forearm **50** also has a base link **64** that is configured to operably couple the sensor **52** to the elbow of the arm (not shown) as will be described in further detail below. The sensor **52** is positioned in the distal-most position in the forearm **50**.
As best shown in [Figure FIGS. 3A and 3B], the base link **64** has a body **64**A made up of two rod-like pieces **64**A**1**, **64**A**2** (as best shown in [Figure FIG. 3A]), an interface plate **64**B at the distal end of the link **64**, and an end plate **64**C at the proximal end having a coupling component **64**D. The interface plate **64**B is configured to couple to the sensor **52**. In one implementation, the plate **64**B is rigidly coupled to the sensor **52**. The body **64**A has space between and adjacent to the rod-like pieces **64**A**1**, **64**A**2** that can be configured to receive or provide space for on-board electronic components and wiring (not shown). The electronic components can include, but are not limited to, local motor driving boards, absolute positioning sensor boards, biometric sensor boards, and measurement boards to access the sensor data collected by the sensor **52**. The coupling component **64**D is configured to couple to the elbow joint (not shown) and/or the upper arm (not shown) of the device. In one embodiment, the coupling component **64**D as shown is a projection **64**D that defines a circular hole configured to receive and couple to an articulate shaft (not shown) of the upper arm (not shown). Alternatively, the coupling component **64**D can be any known mechanism, component, or apparatus for coupling a forearm to an upper arm or elbow of a medical device.
In one implementation, the base link **64** is physically separate from and not rigidly coupled to the motor housing **54**. This separation of the two components allows forces applied to the grasper **62** to be transferred through the front plate **56** and into the sensor **52** and reduces the diffusion of such forces. According to certain embodiments, the base link **64** is a cantilevered link **64** that allows the sensor **52** to measure the force applied on the arm **50**, and in some cases, the distal endpoint of the end effector **62**. Alternatively, the link **64** need not be a cantilevered link **64**, but instead can have one or more components that apply a known amount of force thereon. Regardless, the base link **64**
