# Patent: US-11076922-B2

## Title
Mechanical manipulator for surgical instruments

## Abstract
A novel mechanical system, based on a new cable driven mechanical transmission, able to provide sufficient dexterity, stiffness, speed, precision and payload capacity to actuate multi-DOF micro-manipulators. Besides the possibility of being used in several articulated surgical instruments and robotic systems for surgery or other applications involving remote manipulation, it enables the design of a novel fully mechanical surgical instrument, which offer the advantages of conventional laparoscopy (low cost, tactile feedback, high payload capacity) combined with the advantages of single port surgery (single incision, scarless surgery, navigation through several quadrants of the abdominal cavity) and robotic surgery (greater degrees of freedom, short learning curve, high stiffness, high precision, increased intuition). The unique design of the proposed system provides an intuitive user interface to achieve such enhanced manoeuvrability, allowing each joint of a teleoperated slave system to be driven by controlling the position of a mechanically connected master unit.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20181005
- **Grant Date**: 20210803
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Ecole Polytechnique Federale De Lausanne (Epfl)
- **Inventors**: BEIRA, Ricardo Daniel Rita, CLAVEL, REYMOND, BLEULER, HANNES
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2090/371, Y10T74/18848, A61B34/30, F16H19/08, A61B2017/2906, A61B34/71

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
       1. A method for remotely operating a teleoperated surgical device to perform a surgical procedure within an incision point at a patient&#39;s body, the method comprising:
 selecting the teleoperated surgical device comprising a slave unit comprising a plurality of slave links interconnected by a plurality of slave joints, an instrument shaft, an end-effector coupled to a distal end of the instrument shaft, a master unit comprising a plurality of master links interconnected by a plurality of master joints, a handle coupled to the master unit for operating the teleoperated surgical device, and a transmission system operatively coupled to the slave unit and the master unit; 
 inserting the end-effector through the incision point such that the instrument shaft passes into the patient&#39;s body at the incision point; and 
 moving the handle to transmit motion between the slave unit and master unit via the transmission system to move the end-effector in up to seven degrees-of-freedom within the patient&#39;s body while an external positioning mechanism provides movement of the instrument shaft in up to four degrees-of-freedom about the incision point, the external positioning mechanism operatively coupled to a slave link of the slave unit and to a fixed external reference and comprising a plurality of external positioning mechanism links interconnected by a plurality of external positioning mechanism joints. 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein moving the handle in a degree-of-freedom causes the transmission system to actuate the slave unit to move the end-effector in a same degree-of-freedom. 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the transmission system is configured such that each of the plurality of slave links of the slave unit and each of the corresponding plurality of master links of the master unit move substantially parallel to each other when operating the teleoperated surgical device. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the transmission system comprises a plurality of actuators coupled to the plurality of slave links such that moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the plurality of actuators to move the end-effector within the patient&#39;s body. 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein input commands from an operator cause movement of the end-effector according to the input commands. 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 4 , wherein moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit to move the end effector in a first degree-of-freedom. 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit to move the end-effector in a second degree-of-freedom. 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit to move the end-effector in a third degree-of-freedom. 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the transmission system comprises two pulleys per degree-of-freedom, such that moving the handle to transmit motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the transmission system to move the end effector comprises actuating a first pulley of the two pulleys to generate motion in a first direction and actuating a second pulley of the two pulleys to generate motion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. 
     
     
       10. The method of  claim 1 , wherein moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the transmission system to move the end-effector at a predetermined selected ratio relative to movement at the handle. 
     
     
       11. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising locking each of the slave unit and the master unit in a stationary configuration when a surgeon is not holding the handle and when the device is in an active position. 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 1 , wherein each of the slave unit and the master unit comprises two slave manipulators and two master manipulators, respectively, and wherein operating the teleoperated surgical device comprises operating each of the two master manipulators independently from the other. 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising positioning a user&#39;s hands on the handle in a natural orientation to each other in an ergonomic posture. 
     
     
       14. A teleoperated surgical device for performing a surgical procedure within an incision point at a patient&#39;s body, the device comprising:
 a slave unit comprising a plurality of slave links interconnected by a plurality of slave joints; 
 an instrument shaft; 
 an end-effector coupled to a distal end of the instrument shaft; 
 a master unit comprising a plurality of master links interconnected by a plurality of master joints; 
 a handle coupled to the master unit for operating the teleoperated surgical device; 
 a transmission system operatively coupled to the plurality of slave joints and the plurality of master joints, wherein movement at the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the transmission system to move the end-effector in up to seven degrees-of-freedom within the patient&#39;s body; and 
 an external positioning mechanism operatively coupled to a slave link of the slave unit and to a fixed external reference, the external positioning mechanism comprising a plurality of external positioning mechanism links interconnected by a plurality of external positioning mechanism joints and configured to provide movement of the instrument shaft in up to four degrees-of-freedom about the incision point. 
 
     
     
       15. The device of  claim 14 , wherein the transmission system comprises a plurality of actuators coupled to the plurality of slave links such that moving the handle transmits motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the plurality of actuators to move the end-effector within the patient&#39;s body. 
     
     
       16. The device of  claim 14 , wherein moving the handle in a degree-of-freedom causes the transmission system to actuate the slave unit to move the end-effector in a same degree-of-freedom. 
     
     
       17. The device of  claim 14 , wherein input commands from an operator cause movement of the end-effector according to the input commands. 
     
     
       18. The device of  claim 17 , wherein the input commands comprise the operator moving the handle, and wherein movement of the handle corresponds to an analogous scaled increment movement of the end-effector. 
     
     
       19. The device of  claim 14 , wherein the transmission system comprises two pulleys per degree-of-freedom, such that moving the handle to transmit motion between the slave unit and the master unit via the transmission system to move the end effector in seven degrees of freedom within the patient&#39;s body comprises actuating a first pulley of the two pulleys to generate motion in a first direction and actuating a second pulley of the two pulleys to generate motion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. 
     
     
       20. The device of  claim 14 , wherein each of the slave unit and the master unit comprises two slave manipulators and two master manipulators, respectively, and wherein each of the two master manipulators are configured to be operated independently from the other.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This Application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/878,924, filed May 17, 2013, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,092,359, which is a national phase of International PCT Patent Application Serial No. PCT/IB2011/054476, filed Oct. 11, 2011, which claims the benefit of European patent application No. 10187088.9 and No. 10187097.0, both filed on Oct. 11, 2010, the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
     The present invention relates to the field of remotely actuated mechanisms and devices for use in surgical procedures within the abdominal cavity, using reduced incisions in the abdominal wall. 
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     A major progress in abdominal surgery has occurred during the last decades with the introduction of laparoscopic and minimally invasive techniques. These innovative procedures focused much attention due to their several advantages: smaller abdominal incisions needed, resulting in faster recovery of the patient, improved cosmetics, and shorter stay in the hospital. The safety, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic surgery have subsequently been demonstrated in clinical trials for many routine abdominal operations. However, from the surgeon&#39;s point of view, there are still many difficulties in learning and performing such procedures with current laparoscopic equipment, which is non-ergonomic, non-intuitive and missing in adequate stiffness, precision and force feedback. 
     In order to overcome the disadvantages of traditional minimally invasive surgery (MIS), robot technology has been introduced into the operation room. Although a wide range of diagnostic and therapeutic robotic devices have been developed, the only commercial systems that have already been used in human surgery are the do Vinci System, by Intuitive Surgical, [Guthart2000], and ZEUS, by Computer Motion. Following the fusion be...
