# Patent: US-12329380-B2

## Title
End tool of surgical instrument, and surgical instrument comprising same

## Abstract
The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20240104
- **Grant Date**: 20250617
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Livsmed Inc.
- **Inventors**: LEE, Jaeyeong, KIM, JUNGHWAN, LEE, JUNG JOO, KIM, HEEJIN, JANG, Dongkyu
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2017/2932, A61B2017/00367, A61B34/30, A61B2017/00407, A61B2017/2939, A61B2017/07278, A61B2017/07271, A61B34/71, A61B2017/291, A61B2017/2936, A61B2017/2937, A61B2017/2927, A61B17/07207

## Claims
The invention claimed is: 
     
       1. A surgical instrument comprising:
 an end tool including: 
 a first jaw; 
 a second jaw formed to face the first jaw; 
 a first jaw pulley coupled to the first jaw and formed to be rotatable around a first shaft; 
 a second jaw pulley coupled to the second jaw, formed to be rotatable around a shaft substantially the same as or parallel to the first shaft, and formed to be spaced apart from the first jaw pulley by a certain extent; and 
 a staple drive assembly including a staple pulley at least partially formed between the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley; and 
 a cartridge including; 
 a reciprocating assembly that is connected to the staple drive assembly, and linearly moved when the staple pulley is rotationally moved; and 
 an operation member that is brought into contact with the reciprocating assembly, and is moved in one direction by the reciprocating assembly when the reciprocating assembly is moved in the one direction. 
 
     
     
       2. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated, 
 the reciprocating assembly connected to the staple drive assembly is moved toward a distal end or a proximal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       3. The surgical instrument of  claim 2 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is alternately rotated in a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction, 
 the reciprocating assembly connected to the staple drive assembly is alternately moved toward the distal end and the proximal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       4. The surgical instrument of  claim 3 , wherein
 when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, 
 the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge by the reciprocating assembly. 
 
     
     
       5. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein a bidirectional rotational motion of the staple pulley is converted into a reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly, which is connected to the staple drive assembly, by the staple drive assembly. 
     
     
       6. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein
 as the operation member is moved in the one direction, 
 a wedge of the operation member sequentially pushes and raises a plurality of staples in the cartridge to perform a stapling motion, and simultaneously 
 a blade formed on one side of the wedge of the operation member is moved in the one direction to perform a cutting motion. 
 
     
     
       7. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein the staple drive assembly includes a link member configured to connect the staple pulley and the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
       8. The surgical instrument of  claim 7 , wherein the operation member includes a ratchet member having a ratchet formed on at least one surface thereof,
 wherein the ratchet of the ratchet member is formed to be in contact with the reciprocating assembly. 
 
     
     
       9. The surgical instrument of  claim 8 , wherein the operation member is moved toward a distal end of the cartridge together with the reciprocating assembly only when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       10. The surgical instrument of  claim 8 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated in a first direction between a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction, 
 the link member connected to the staple pulley, the reciprocating assembly connected to the link member, and the operation member in contact with the reciprocating assembly are moved toward a distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       11. The surgical instrument of  claim 10 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated in a direction opposite to the first direction between the clockwise and counterclockwise directions, 
 the link member connected to the staple pulley and the reciprocating assembly connected to the link member are moved toward a proximal end of the end tool, and 
 
       the operation member remains stationary with respect to the one direction. 
     
     
       12. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein
 the staple drive assembly includes a first link member connected to one region of the staple pulley, and a second link member connected to an other region of the staple pulley, and 
 the reciprocating assembly includes a first reciprocating member coupled to the first link member and a second reciprocating member coupled to the second link member. 
 
     
     
       13. The surgical instrument of  claim 12 , wherein the operation member includes a ratchet member having a first ratchet and a second ratchet formed thereon,
 wherein the first ratchet is formed to be in contact with the first reciprocating member, and the second ratchet is formed to be in contact with the second reciprocating member. 
 
     
     
       14. The surgical instrument of  claim 13 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated in one direction, the first ratchet and the first reciprocating member are in contact with each other, and 
 when the staple pulley is rotated in the other direction, the second ratchet and the second reciprocating member are in contact with each other. 
 
     
     
       15. The surgical instrument of  claim 13 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated in a first direction between a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction, 
 the first link member connected to the staple pulley, the first reciprocating member connected to the first link member, and the operation member in contact with the first reciprocating member are moved toward a distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       16. The surgical instrument of  claim 15 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is rotated in a direction opposite to the first direction between the clockwise and counterclockwise directions, 
 the second link member connected to the staple pulley, the second reciprocating member connected to the second link member, and the operation member in contact with the second reciprocating member are moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       17. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , further comprising a staple wire coupled to the staple pulley and configured to rotate the staple pulley. 
     
     
       18. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein each of a deactivated state, in which the staple drive assembly and the reciprocating assembly are spaced apart from each other, and an activated state, in which the staple drive assembly and the reciprocating assembly are coupled to each other, exists. 
     
     
       19. The surgical instrument of  claim 18 , wherein only in the activated state, when the staple pulley is rotationally moved, the reciprocating assembly is linearly moved by the rotational moving of the staple pulley. 
     
     
       20. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 a pair of end tool first jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the first jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a second shaft forming a predetermined angle with the first shaft; and 
 a pair of end tool second jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the second jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a shaft that is substantially the same as or parallel to the second shaft. 
 
     
     
       21. The surgical instrument of  claim 20 , wherein the end tool is formed to be yaw-rotatable around the first shaft and simultaneously pitch-rotatable around the second shaft. 
     
     
       22. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein the first jaw pulley, the staple pulley, and the second jaw pulley are sequentially stacked.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation application of the U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 18/288,002 filed on Oct. 23, 2023, which is a U.S. national-stage application of PCT/KR2022/005795 filed on Apr. 22, 2022, and claims priority to Korean patent application Nos. 10-2021-0053353 filed on Apr. 23, 2021, and 10-2021-0055322 filed on Apr. 28, 201, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same. 
     BACKGROUND ART 
     In recent years, laparoscopic surgery has been actively utilized to reduce postoperative recovery time and complications through small incisions. The laparoscopic surgery is a surgical method in which a plurality of small holes are drilled in the abdomen of a patient and the inside of the abdominal cavity is observed through these holes, and is widely used in general surgery and the like. 
     In performing the laparoscopic surgery, a suturing instrument inserted into the body is used to suture a surgical site in the abdominal cavity, and a surgical stapler for suturing the surgical site using medical staples is used as the suturing instrument. 
     In general, a surgical stapler is a medical instrument that is often used for cutting and anastomosis of an organ in abdominal and thoracic surgery. The surgical stapler includes an open stapler used in thoracotomy and laparotomy and an endo stapler used in thoracoscopic surgery and celioscopic surgery. 
     The su...
