# Patent: US-12089847-B2

## Title
End tool of surgical instrument, and surgical instrument comprising same

## Abstract
The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation portion, and a surgical instrument including the same.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20240116
- **Grant Date**: 20240917
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Livsmed Inc.
- **Inventors**: LEE, Jaeyeong, KIM, JUNGHWAN, LEE, JUNG JOO, KIM, HEEJIN, JANG, Dongkyu
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2017/2933, A61B2017/2903, A61B2017/07257, A61B2017/07285, A61B2017/07271, A61B34/71, A61B2017/2937, A61B2017/2936, A61B2017/2932, A61B2017/2927, A61B2017/2926, A61B2017/00407, A61B2017/07214, A61B18/1445, A61B34/30, A61B17/295, A61B2017/00424, A61B2017/2923, A61B2017/00477, A61B2017/07278, A61B2017/2911, A61B2017/291, A61B17/2909, A61B17/07207

## Claims
The invention claimed is: 
     
       1. A surgical instrument comprising:
 an end tool comprising:
 a first jaw; 
 a second jaw formed to face the first jaw; 
 a first jaw pulley coupled to the first jaw and formed to be rotatable around a first shaft; 
 a second jaw pulley coupled to the second jaw, formed to be rotatable around a shaft that is substantially the same as or parallel to the first shaft, and formed to be spaced apart from the first jaw pulley by a certain extent; and 
 a staple drive assembly comprising a first staple pulley and a second staple pulley formed adjacent to the first jaw pulley or the second jaw pulley; and 
 
 a cartridge comprising:
 a reciprocating assembly that is connected to the staple drive assembly, and is linearly moved when the first staple pulley and the second staple pulley are rotationally moved; and 
 an operation member that is brought into contact with the reciprocating assembly, and is moved in one direction by the reciprocating assembly when the reciprocating assembly is moved in the one direction. 
 
 
     
     
       2. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein, when the first staple pulley or the second staple pulley is rotated, the reciprocating assembly connected to the staple drive assembly is moved toward a distal end or a proximal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       3. The surgical instrument of  claim 2 , wherein, when the first staple pulley or the second staple pulley is rotated alternately in a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction, the reciprocating assembly connected to the staple drive assembly is moved alternately toward the distal end and the proximal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       4. The surgical instrument of  claim 3 , wherein, when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge by the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
       5. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein a bidirectional rotational motion of the first staple pulley or the second staple pulley is converted, by the staple drive assembly, into a reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly connected to the staple drive assembly. 
     
     
       6. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein as the operation member is moved in the one direction, a wedge of the operation member sequentially pushes and raises a plurality of staples in the cartridge to perform a stapling motion, and simultaneously a blade formed on one side of the wedge of the operation member is moved in the one direction to perform a cutting motion. 
     
     
       7. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein the staple drive assembly further comprises a link member connecting the first staple pulley and the second staple pulley to the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
       8. The surgical instrument of  claim 7 , wherein the operation member comprises a ratchet member having a ratchet formed on at least one surface thereof, and
 the ratchet of the ratchet member is formed to be able to be in contact with the reciprocating assembly. 
 
     
     
       9. The surgical instrument of  claim 8 , wherein the operation member is moved toward a distal end of the cartridge together with the reciprocating assembly only when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       10. The surgical instrument of  claim 8 , wherein, when the first staple pulley is rotated in a first direction among a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction, and the second staple pulley is rotated in a direction opposite to the first direction among the clockwise direction and the counterclockwise direction, the link member connected to the first staple pulley and the second staple pulley, the reciprocating assembly connected to the link member, and the operation member in contact with the reciprocating assembly are moved toward a distal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       11. The surgical instrument of  claim 10 , wherein, when the first staple pulley is rotated in the direction opposite to the first direction among the clockwise direction and the counterclockwise direction, and the second staple pulley is rotated in the first direction among the clockwise direction and the counterclockwise direction, the link member connected to the staple pulleys, and the reciprocating assembly connected to the link member are moved toward a proximal end of the end tool, and the operation member remains stationary with respect to the one direction. 
     
     
       12. The surgical instrument of  claim 7 , wherein a first protruding member is formed in the first staple pulley,
 a second protruding member is formed in the second staple pulley, 
 a first slot is formed on a surface of the link member facing the first staple pulley, and 
 a second slot is formed on one surface of the link member facing the second staple pulley. 
 
     
     
       13. The surgical instrument of  claim 12 , wherein the first protruding member and the second protruding member are formed in a form of a cam, and
 the link member is moved, as the first protruding member presses the first slot of the link member while rotating, and the second protruding member presses the second slot of the link member while rotating. 
 
     
     
       14. The surgical instrument of  claim 12 , wherein a center of the first protruding member does not coincide with a center of the first staple pulley,
 the first protruding member is formed to be eccentric to a certain extent with respect to the first staple pulley, 
 a center of the second protruding member does not coincide with a center of the second staple pulley, and 
 the second protruding member is formed to be eccentric to a certain extent with respect to the second staple pulley. 
 
     
     
       15. The surgical instrument of  claim 12 , wherein, when the first staple pulley and the second staple pulley are rotated in directions opposite to each other, the link member is moved in one direction, and
 when the first staple pulley and the second staple pulley are rotated in the same direction, the link member remains stationary with respect to the one direction. 
 
     
     
       16. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 a first staple wire coupled to the first staple pulley to rotate the first staple pulley; and 
 a second staple wire coupled to the second staple pulley to rotate the second staple pulley. 
 
     
     
       17. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 a pair of end tool first jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the first jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a second shaft forming a predetermined angle with the first shaft; and 
 a pair of end tool second jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the second jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a shaft that is substantially the same as or parallel to the second shaft. 
 
     
     
       18. The surgical instrument of  claim 17 , wherein the end tool is formed to be yaw-rotatable around the first shaft and simultaneously pitch-rotatable around the second shaft. 
     
     
       19. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein the first jaw pulley, the first staple pulley, the second staple pulley, and the second jaw pulley are sequentially stacked. 
     
     
       20. The surgical instrument of  claim 1 , wherein the staple drive assembly is formed between the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION 
     This application is a continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 18/579,795 filed on Jan. 16, 2024, which is a national-stage entry of international application No. PCT/KR2022/010382, filed on Jul. 15, 2022, which claims priority to Korean Patent Application No. 10-2021-0093833, filed on Jul. 16, 2021, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation portion, and a surgical instrument including the same. 
     BACKGROUND ART 
     In recent years, laparoscopic surgery has been actively utilized to reduce postoperative recovery time and complications through small incisions. The laparoscopic surgery is a surgical method in which a plurality of small holes are drilled in the abdomen of a patient and the inside of the abdominal cavity is observed through these holes, and is widely used in general surgery and the like. 
     In performing the laparoscopic surgery, a suturing instrument inserted into the body is used to suture a surgical site in the abdominal cavity, and a surgical stapler for suturing the surgical site by using medical staples is used as the suturing instrument. 
     In general, a surgical stapler is a medical instrument that is often used for cutting and anastomosis of an organ in abdominal and thoracic surgery. The surgical stapler includes an open stapler used in thoracotomy and laparotomy and an endo stapler used in thoracoscopic surgery and celioscopic surgery. 
     The surgical stapler has advantages of not only short...
