# Patent: US-11890023-B2

## Title
Methods and systems for bone mounted robotic-assisted hip and shoulder surgical systems

## Abstract
Aspects of present disclosures involve systems, methods, and apparatus for a bone mounted robotic-assisted orthopedic surgery system for precise implant position, soft tissue balancing, and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly partial or total knee replacement procedure. The system features a bone-mounted robotic arm with an end-effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool, positioning of implants, and balancing of soft tissues. The reconfigurable robotic system requires minimal training by surgeons, is intuitive to use similar to conventional instrumented surgery, and has a small footprint. The system works with existing, conventional instruments, patient-specific instruments, sensor-assisted systems, and computer-assisted systems and does not require increased surgical time and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems and computer-assisted technologies.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20211209
- **Grant Date**: 20240206
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Unik Orthopedics, Inc.
- **Inventors**: Chi, Charlie Wen-Ren
- **CPC Codes**: A61B17/1742, A61B17/1703, A61B34/10, A61B34/30, A61B90/06, A61B2034/108, A61B2090/066, A61B34/76, A61B2090/065, A61B2090/08021, A61B34/32, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B34/20, A61B2034/2065, A61B2017/568, A61B17/175, A61B17/15, A61B17/1746, A61B17/1778, A61B17/1659, A61B17/1666

## Claims
What is claimed: 
     
       1. A method for performing a hip arthroplasty procedure, the method comprising:
 mating a registration guide to an anatomy of a patient, the registration guide customized to the anatomy of the patient by locating a plurality of landmark locations within a plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, the plurality of landmark locations defining an oriented workspace for a joint arthroplasty procedure; 
 establishing, based on a position and orientation of the customized registration guide, a default position and orientation of an implant for use in the joint arthroplasty procedure, the position and orientation of the customized registration guide defining the oriented workspace for the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 attaching, via an attachment mechanism, a configurable bone-mounted robotic-assisted system to at least one guide pin attached to an anterior inferior iliac spine of the patient&#39;s anatomy in the oriented workspace for the joint arthroplasty procedure, the attachment of the at least one guide pin based on a pin guide of the customized registration guide, the robotic-assisted system comprising a robot controller in communication with a bone-mounted robotic device, an acetabular reamer connected to a motor controlled by a motor controller, and a torque sensor in communication with the robot controller, 
 wherein the customized registration guide comprises:
 a circular portion; 
 a triangular portion extending from the circular portion; 
 an elliptical mating feature extending from the triangular portion and contacting anatomy of the patient at a junction of a pubis and ilium near the anterior inferior iliac spine to prevent the guide from rotating during joint arthroplasty procedure when mated; and 
 at least three cylindrical mating shapes extending from the circular portion and in contact with a rim of an acetabular portion of the patient&#39;s anatomy when mated. 
 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 adjusting, via the motor controller and based on a torque sensor information, a rotations-per-minute (RPM) of the acetabular reamer; and adjusting, via the robotic controller and based on the torque sensor information, a position of the bone-mounted robotic device. 
 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1  wherein the bone-mounted robotic device comprises a hexapod robotic device with six degrees of freedom, the hexapod robotic device comprising a base plate, top plate, and a plurality of prismatic joints between the base plate and the top plate. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 3  wherein the base plate comprises the attachment mechanism attaching to the at least one guide pin attached to the anterior inferior iliac spine of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1  wherein the customized registration guide further comprises one or more drill hole guides extending outward from the triangular portion. 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1  wherein a first of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts a pubic portion of the rim of the acetabular portion, a second of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts an ischial portion of the rim of the acetabular portion, and a third of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts an ischium portion of the rim of the acetabular portion. 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 identifying, within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, a first location corresponding to a top of an acetabular surface at a mid-point of an obturator groove of a pubis and a second location corresponding to the top of the acetabular surface at a mid-point of a pubis spine. 
 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 7 , further comprising:
 identifying, within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, a third location corresponding a location on an acetabular rim obtained from a perpendicular line from a midpoint of a line between the first location and the second location. 
 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 8  wherein the oriented workspace for the joint arthroplasty procedure is based on the first location, second location, and the third location and the acetabular reamer rotates about an axis extending parallel from the perpendicular line during the joint arthroplasty procedure.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION 
     This application is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Patent Application No. 63/124,697, filed Dec. 11, 2020 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR BONE MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED HIP AND SHOULDER SURGICAL SYSTEMS,” the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for creating and manufacturing customized surgical guides. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to methods for creating bone mounted guides customized to a particular patient from one or more two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s hip or shoulder taken from an imaging device. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Through repeated heavy lifting, traumatic events, bone disease and/or arthritis, a patient&#39;s joints, such as the knee, hip, shoulder, and ankle may become degenerated, damaged or loosened to the point that pain or paralysis does not respond to medication or other forms of non-surgical treatments. One type of surgical procedure to address the patient&#39;s pain or deformity is total or partial joint arthroplasty. 
     A joint replacement procedure involves removing parts of an arthritic or damaged joint and replaced with a metal, plastic, or ceramic device called a prosthesis. The prosthesis or artificial joint is designed to replicate the movement of a normal, healthy joint. For example, the damaged hip joint is replaced with a metal ball attached to a metal stem that is fitted into the femur (the upper end of the femur), and a plastic liner with a metal socket is implanted into the pelvis, replacing the damaged acetabulum. Also, components that are properly positioned and oriented can achieve stability without impingement or loosening. Hip dislocation is one of the common complications after hip replacement surgery. An accurate component position is more likely to have ...
