# Patent: US-2015257840-A1

## Title
Positions for Multiple Surgical Mounting Platform Rotation Clutch Buttons

## Abstract
Robotic and/or surgical devices, systems, and methods include kinematic linkage structures and associated control systems configured to facilitate preparation of the system for use. One or more kinematic linkage sub-systems may include joints that are actively driven, passive, or a mix of both. A set-up mode employs an intuitive user interface in which one or more joints are initially held static by a brake or joint drive system. The user may articulate the joint(s) by manually pushing against the linkage with a force, torque, or the like that exceeds a manual articulation threshold. Articulation of the moving joints is facilitated by modifying the signals transmitted to the brake or drive system. The system may sense completion of the reconfiguration from a velocity of the joint(s) falling below a threshold, optionally for a desired dwell time. The system may provide a detent-like manual articulation that is not limited to mechanically pre-defined detent joint configurations. Embodiments of the invention provide, and can be particularly well-suited for manual movement of a platform supporting a plurality of surgical manipulators in a robotic surgical system or the like without having to add additional input devices.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20150317
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: MOHR PAUL, HANUSCHIK MICHAEL, MILLMAN PAUL
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/35, A61B34/30, A61B2090/035, A61B2090/508, A61B34/37, A61B2019/2223, A61B2019/223, A61B19/2203, A61B2019/2269

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A teleoperated surgical system comprising:
 a support structure supporting a mounting platform, the support structure including a support linkage including a base and a drive or brake system operatively coupled to the support linkage so as to limit inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base;   a first manipulator and a second manipulator extending from and supported by the mounting platform, the first manipulator and the second manipulator coupled to the mounting platform via a first set-up linkage and a second set-up linkage, respectively;   a first actuatable input and a second actuatable input, each configured for user actuation of the drive or brake system of the support structure to selectively halt a servoing or a breaking by the drive or brake system that limits the inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base to allow for manual rotation of the mounting platform by a user, the first actuatable input and second actuatable input positioned on the first set-up linkage and second set-up linkage, respectively.   
     
     
         2 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the first and second actuatable inputs each comprise switches. 
     
     
         3 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 2 , wherein the first and second switches each comprise depressible buttons. 
     
     
         4 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein each of the first and second set-up linkages comprise a base link that extends horizontally from the mounting platform and wherein the first and second actuatable inputs for user actuation of the drive or brake system are positioned distally from the base link of each of the first and second set-up linkages, respectively. 
     
     
         5 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 4 , wherein each of the first and second set-up linkages comprise a vertical link coupled with the base link that extends down from an end of the base link, and wherein the first and second actuatable inputs are positioned on the vertical link of each of the first and second set-up linkages, respectively. 
     
     
         6 . A teleoperated surgical system comprising:
 a support structure supporting a mounting platform, the support structure including a support linkage including a base and a drive or brake system operatively coupled to the support linkage so as to limit inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base;   a plurality of manipulators extending from and supported by the mounting platform, the plurality of manipulators each coupled to the mounting platform via a set-up linkage;   a plurality of actuatable inputs, the plurality of inputs each positioned between an associated one of the plurality of manipulators and the mounting platform; and   a processor coupling with the plurality of actuatable inputs and the drive or brake system, the processor configured to actuate the drive or brake system to selectively halt a servoing or a breaking by the drive or brake system that limits the inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base based on input from the actuatable inputs so as to allow for manual rotation of the mounting platform by a user when the user actuates any one of the plurality of actuatable inputs.   
     
     
         7 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 6 , wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs comprise switches. 
     
     
         8 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 7 , wherein the switches comprise depressible buttons. 
     
     
         9 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 6 , wherein each of the set-up linkages comprise a base link that extends horizontally from the mounting platform and wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs for user actuation of the drive or brake system are positioned distally from the base link of each of the set-up linkages, respectively. 
     
     
         10 . The teleoperated surgical system of  claim 9 , wherein each of the set-up linkages comprise a vertical link coupled with the base link that extends down from an end of the base link, and wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs are positioned on the vertical link of each of the set-up linkages, respectively. 
     
     
         11 . A method of positioning one or more manipulators of a teleoperated surgical system, the method comprising:
 providing a teleoperated surgical system comprising:
 a support structure supporting a mounting platform, the support structure including a support linkage including a base and a drive or brake system operatively coupled to the support linkage; 
 a plurality of manipulators extending from and supported by the mounting platform, the plurality of manipulators each coupled to the mounting platform via a set-up linkage; 
 a plurality of actuatable inputs, the plurality of inputs each positioned between an associated one of the plurality of manipulators and the mounting platform; 
   actuating the drive or brake system so as to limit inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base;   receiving a signal from any one of the plurality of actuatable inputs indicating user actuation of one of the actuatable inputs;   actuating the drive or brake system so as to halt a servoing or a breaking by the drive or brake system that limits the inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform relative to the support structure base to allow for manual rotation of the mounting platform by a user so long as the signal is being received from any one of the plurality of actuatable inputs;   reactuating the drive or brake system so as to limit inadvertent manual rotation of the mounting platform once the signal from any one of the plurality of actuatable inputs is no longer received.   
     
     
         12 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs comprise switches. 
     
     
         13 . The method of  claim 12 , wherein the switches comprise depressible buttons. 
     
     
         14 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein each of the set-up linkages comprise a base link that extends horizontally from the mounting platform and wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs for user actuation of the drive or brake system are positioned distally from the base link of each of the set-up linkages, respectively. 
     
     
         15 . The method of  claim 14 , wherein each of the set-up linkages comprise a vertical link coupled with the base link that extends down from an end of the base link, and wherein the plurality of actuatable inputs are positioned on the vertical link of each of the set-up linkages, respectively.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/954,298 filed Mar. 17, 2014, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     Minimally invasive medical techniques are intended to reduce the amount of extraneous tissue that is damaged during diagnostic or surgical procedures, thereby reducing patient recovery time, discomfort, and deleterious side effects. One effect of minimally invasive surgery, for example, is reduced post-operative hospital recovery times. Because the average hospital stay for a standard surgery is typically significantly longer than the average stay for an analogous minimally invasive surgery, increased use of minimally invasive techniques could save millions of dollars in hospital costs each year. While many of the surgeries performed each year in the United States could potentially be performed in a minimally invasive manner, only a portion of the current surgeries use these advantageous techniques due to limitations in minimally invasive surgical instruments and the additional surgical training involved in mastering them. 
     Minimally invasive robotic surgical or telesurgical systems have been developed to increase a surgeon&#39;s dexterity and avoid some of the limitations on traditional minimally invasive techniques. (Teleoperated medical devices, such as surgical systems, are sometimes called robotic surgical systems because they incorporate robot technology). In telesurgery, the surgeon uses some form of remote control (e.g., a servomechanism or the like) to manipulate surgical instrument movements, rather than directly holding and moving the instruments by hand. In telesurgery systems, the surgeon can be provided with an image of the surgical site at a surgical workstation. While viewing a two or three dimensional image of the surgical site on a display, the surgeon performs the surgical procedures on the patient by manipu...
