# Patent: US-2021015565-A1

## Title
Apparatus, systems, and methods for precise guidance of surgical tools

## Abstract
Described herein are systems, apparatus, and methods for precise placement and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgical procedure. The system features a portable robot arm with end effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool. The system requires only minimal training by surgeons/operators, is intuitive to use, and has a small footprint with significantly reduced obstruction of the operating table. The system works with existing, standard surgical tools, does not required increased surgical time or preparatory time, and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20200925
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Kb Medical, Sa
- **Inventors**: KOSTRZEWSKI, Szymon, CHAPPUIS, OLIVIER, NUSSBAUMER, Billy, GEHRIGER, DANIEL, BERTHELIN, Roderik
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/37, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B2090/064, A61B34/76, A61B17/1615, A61B2034/107, A61B34/30, A61B2034/2055, A61B34/10, A61B34/70, A61B90/11, A61B34/20, A61B2090/066, A61B2090/376, A61B90/37, A61B90/06, A61B2090/3762

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A method of performing a surgical procedure with a robotic surgical system, the method including:
 obtaining or accessing an image of at least a portion of a spine of patient undergoing the surgical procedure;   moving a mobile cart transporting the robotic surgical system, the robotic surgical system including a robotic arm in proximity to an operating table, wherein the robotic arm includes an end effector;   stabilizing the mobile cart;   computing, by a processor of a computing device, a desired trajectory for a first surgical tool from the image of and from a detected real-time position of at least one of the first surgical tool and end effector of the robotic arm;   aligning the end effector in accordance with the desired trajectory; and   maneuvering the first surgical tool, wherein the first surgical tool is constrained by the end effector.   
     
     
         2 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the image is 3D CT scan. 
     
     
         3 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the image is a 3D fluoroscopy scan. 
     
     
         4 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the end-effector is configured to hold the first surgical tool. 
     
     
         5 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein stabilizing the mobile cart includes immobilizing the mobile cart with respect to the operating room floor. 
     
     
         6 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the first surgical tool is a drill. 
     
     
         7 . The method of  claim 6 , wherein the desired trajectory is path of the drill to a vertebral body of the patient. 
     
     
         8 . The method of  claim 1 , further comprising: performing a registration, by the processor, to spatially align the end effector, the patient, and the desired trajectory. 
     
     
         9 . The method of  claim 8 , further comprising: maintaining the spatial alignment without performing a re-registration of a position of the end-effector at the desired trajectory when the first surgical tool is removed and replaced with a second surgical tool. 
     
     
         10 . The method of  claim 1 , further comprising: displaying the position of the first surgical instrument in relation to the image during the surgical procedure. 
     
     
         11 . A method of performing a surgical procedure with a robotic surgical system, the method including:
 obtaining or accessing an image of at least a portion of a spine of patient undergoing the surgical procedure;   moving a mobile cart transporting the robotic surgical system, the robotic surgical system including a robotic arm in proximity to an operating table, wherein the robotic arm includes an end effector;   stabilizing the mobile cart;   detecting, by the processor, a force applied by a user to the end effector;   determining, by the processor, whether the force exceeds a predetermined minimum force required for movement of the end-effector;   controlling, by the processor, movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the end effector, thereby providing haptic feedback to the user via the end effector;   computing, by a processor of a computing device, a projected trajectory for a first surgical tool from the image and from a detected real-time position of at least one of the first surgical tool and end effector; and   maneuvering the first surgical tool, wherein the first surgical tool is constrained by the end effector.   
     
     
         12 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the image is 3D CT scan. 
     
     
         13 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the image is a 3D fluoroscopy scan. 
     
     
         14 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the end-effector is configured to hold the surgical tool. 
     
     
         15 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein stabilizing the mobile cart includes immobilizing the mobile cart with respect to the operating room floor. 
     
     
         16 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the first surgical tool is a drill. 
     
     
         17 . The method of  claim 16 , wherein the projected trajectory is path of the drill to a vertebral body of the patient. 
     
     
         18 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising: performing a registration, by the processor, to spatially align the end effector, the patient, and the projected trajectory. 
     
     
         19 . The method of  claim 18 , further comprising: maintaining the spatial alignment without performing a re-registration of a position of the end-effector at the projected trajectory when the first surgical tool is removed and replaced with a second surgical tool. 
     
     
         20 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising: displaying the position of the first surgical instrument in relation to the image during the surgical procedure.

## Description Snippet
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15/712,368, filed on Sep. 22, 2017 and titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (published as U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2018-0008358), which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/947,674, filed on Nov. 20, 2015 and titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2016-0081754), which is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/266,769, filed Apr. 30, 2014, titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9,283,048), which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/887,273, titled “Apparatus, Systems, and Methods for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” and filed Oct. 4, 2013 (expired), the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Robotic-assisted surgical systems have been developed to improve surgical precision and enable the implementation of new surgical procedures. For example, robotic systems have been developed to sense a surgeon&#39;s hand movements and translate them to scaled-down micro-movements and filter out unintentional tremors for precise microsurgical techniques in organ transplants, reconstructions, and minimally invasive surgeries. Other robotic systems are directed to telemanipulation of surgical tools such that the surgeon does not have to be present in the operating room, thereby facilitating remote surgery. Feedback-controlled robotic systems have also been developed to provide smoother manipulation of a surgical tool during a procedure than could be achieved by an unaided surgeon. 
     However, widespread acceptance of robotic systems by surgeons and hospitals is limited for a variety of reasons. Current systems are expensive to own and maintain. They ...
