# Patent: US-2025009449-A1

## Title
Methods and systems for robotic-assisted surgery using customized bone registration guides

## Abstract
Described within are systems, methods and apparatus for a bone mounted robotic-assisted orthopedic surgery system for precise implant position, soft tissue balancing and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly partial or total knee replacement procedure. The system features a bone mounted robotic arm with end-effector for precise positioning of surgical tool, position in of implants and balancing of soft tissues. The reconfigurable robotic system requires minimal training by surgeons, is intuitive to use similar to conventional instrumented surgery and has a small footprint. The system works with existing, conventional instruments, patient specific instruments, sensor-assisted systems and computer-assisted systems and does not require increased surgical time and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems and computer-assisted technologies.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20240924
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Unik Orthopedics, Inc.
- **Inventors**: Chi, Charlie Wen-Ren
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/30, A61B17/154, A61B2017/00212, A61B17/1742, A61B2034/108, A61B2034/105, A61B2017/00398, A61B17/1757, A61B2017/00477, A61B2034/301, B25J17/02, A61B34/10, A61B17/1764, A61B2034/2055, A61B2034/101, A61B90/10, A61B2034/302, A61B2090/065, A61B2090/066, A61B17/17, A61B17/15, A61B17/175, A61B2017/568, A61B17/1746

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A method for performing an arthroplasty procedure, the method comprising:
 receiving a plurality of two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s joint the subject of the joint arthroplasty procedure;   generating, based on locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint, a customized registration guide for the patient&#39;s joint for use during the joint arthroplasty procedure and comprising one or more drill bit guides; and   mounting, using the customized registration guide and a plurality of registration pins based on the one or more drill bit guides of the customized registration guide, a robotic device on the patient&#39;s anatomy, the robotic device comprising:
 a controller base unit configured to activate a first link joint of the controller base and a second link joint of the controller base, the second link joint distinct from the first link joint; 
 a mounting device in mechanically coupled with the first link joint of the controller base unit via a plurality of configurable links comprising at least a translation link configured to translate with two degrees of freedom transversal to each other to orient the controller base unit in relation to the mounting device and corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 a configurable resection guide mechanically coupled with the second link joint of the controller base unit and oriented to provide a resection guide for the joint arthroplasty procedure. 
   
     
     
         2 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the joint arthroplasty procedure comprising an intra-operative, soft-tissue gap balancing for both static and dynamic motion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         3 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the robotic device is configurable with one of two-degrees, three-degrees, four-degrees, five-degrees, or six-degrees of freedom. 
     
     
         4 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the first link joint provides one degree of rotational freedom between the mounting device and the controller base unit and the second link joint provides one degree of rotational freedom between the resection guide and the controller base unit. 
     
     
         5 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the first link joint and the second link joint are each mechanically coupled with one of a plurality of activators. 
     
     
         6 . The method of  claim 5 , wherein the controller base unit further comprises an input device and the method further comprises:
 activating, via a first of the plurality of activators, the first link joint based on receiving a first input via the input device.   
     
     
         7 . The method of  claim 6  further comprising:
 activating, via a second of the plurality of activators, the second link joint based on receiving a second input via the input device. 
 
     
     
         8 . The method of  claim 6  further comprising:
 cycling through a series of activations of the first link joint and the second link joint in response to repeated inputs received via the input device. 
 
     
     
         9 . The method of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 detaching the first configurable link from the first link joint while the mounting device is mounted to the patient&#39;s anatomy via the customized registration guide.   
     
     
         10 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein generating the customized registration guide comprises:
 locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, wherein the customized registration guide comprises a customized surface configured to mate, via the plurality of mating shapes, to a bone of the patient&#39;s anatomy and a registration surface configured to attach to the robotic device.   
     
     
         11 . The method of  claim 10 , wherein the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy comprises a plurality of magnetic-resonance images. 
     
     
         12 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein generating the customized registration guide further comprises:
 identifying one or more landmarks on the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint; and   reorienting the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint based at least on the one or more landmarks.   
     
     
         13 . The method of  claim 1 , wherein the plurality of configurable links further comprises:
 a first rotational link mechanically coupled with the translational link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to a linear link.   
     
     
         14 . The method of  claim 13 , wherein the plurality of configurable links further comprises:
 a second rotational link in mechanical communication with the first rotational link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the first rotational link.

## Description Snippet
RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation of and is related to U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 18/207,869, filed Jun. 9, 2023 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” which is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 17/091,516, filed Nov. 6, 2020 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Patent Application No. 62/933,874, filed Nov. 11, 2019 entitled “BONE-MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGICAL SYSTEMS,” and from U.S. Patent Application No. 63/090,384, filed Oct. 12, 2020 entitled “ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” the entirety of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for creating and utilizing customized arthroplasty registration guides in joint replacement procedures. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to methods for creating arthroplasty registration guides customized to a particular patient for use in robot-assisted surgical procedures that provide three-dimensional reference information of the patient to the surgical robot to orient a surgical plan for execution by the surgical robot, including bone-mounted surgical robots. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Through repeated heavy lifting, traumatic events, bone disease and/or arthritis, a patient&#39;s joints, such as knee, hip, shoulder and ankle may become degenerated, damaged or loosened to the point that pain or paralysis does not respond to medication or other forms of non-surgical treatments. One type of procedure to address damage to a person&#39;s joint is a total or partial joint arthroplasty procedure. Arthroplasty is a medical procedure where a joint of a patient is replaced, remodeled, or realigned, of...
