# Patent: US-2014005687-A1

## Title
Curved cannula surgical system

## Abstract
A robotic surgical system is configured with rigid, curved cannulas that extend through the same opening into a patient&#39;s body. Surgical instruments with passively flexible shafts extend through the curved cannulas. The cannulas are oriented to direct the instruments towards a surgical site. Various port features that support the curved cannulas within the single opening are disclosed. Cannula support fixtures that support the cannulas during insertion into the single opening and mounting to robotic manipulators are disclosed. A teleoperation control system that moves the curved cannulas and their associated instruments in a manner that allows a surgeon to experience intuitive control is disclosed.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20130830
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PRISCO GIUSEPPE MARIA, GERBI CRAIG R., ROGERS THEODORE W., STEGER JOHN RYAN
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2034/305, A61B2017/2905, A61B2017/3447, A61B2017/00477, A61B2017/3429, A61B2017/3419, A61B2017/00526, A61B2017/2929, A61B34/71, A61B34/73, A61B2017/3454, A61B2017/3445, A61B2017/3441, A61B50/13, A61B1/00149, A61B90/90, A61B34/30, A61B17/0218, A61B34/76, Y10S901/41, A61B34/70, A61B17/3423, A61B34/37, A61B17/3421, B25J13/02, A61B2017/00845, A61B17/3439, A61B17/3474, A61B2017/2904, A61B2017/3466, A61B2034/301, A61B17/3431, A61B2017/2936, A61B90/50, A61B90/92, A61B2090/0811, A61B19/2203

## Claims
We claim: 
     
         1 . A surgical system comprising:
 a first robotic manipulator;   a first cannula comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and a rigid curved section between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the proximal end of the first cannula is coupled to the first robotic manipulator;   a first surgical instrument comprising a flexible shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the first cannula;   a second robotic manipulator;   a second cannula comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and a rigid curved section between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the proximal end of the second cannula is coupled to the second robotic manipulator; and   a second surgical instrument comprising a flexible shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the second cannula;   wherein the first and second cannulas each extend through a single opening in a patient&#39;s body in a direction away from a line that extends between the opening in the patient&#39;s body and a surgical site within the patient&#39;s body, and wherein the curved sections of the first and second cannulas each arc within the patient&#39;s body towards the surgical site and direct distal ends of their respective associated first and second surgical instruments towards the surgical site; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to move the first cannula around a first center of motion, wherein the second robotic manipulator is configured to move the second cannula around a second center of motion, wherein the first and second centers of motion are positioned proximate to one another at the opening in the patient&#39;s body, and wherein movement of the first and second cannulas by their respective associated first and second robotic manipulators around their respective first and second centers of motion is independent of one another.   
     
     
         2 . The surgical system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 a third robotic manipulator; and 
 an endoscope comprising a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the proximal end of the endoscope is coupled to the third robotic manipulator; 
 wherein the endoscope extends through the opening in the patient&#39;s body with the distal end of the endoscope oriented towards the surgical site; and 
 wherein the third robotic manipulator is configured to move the endoscope around a third center of motion, wherein the third center of motion is positioned proximate to the first and second centers of motion at the opening in the patient&#39;s body, and wherein movement of the endoscope by the third robotic manipulator around the third center of motion is independent of movement of the first and second cannulas around their respective first and second centers of motion. 
 
     
     
         3 . The surgical system of  claim 2 :
 wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to move the first cannula in pitch and yaw around the first center of motion;   wherein the second robotic manipulator is configured to move the second cannula in pitch and yaw around the second center of motion; and   wherein the third robotic manipulator is configured to move the endoscope in pitch and yaw around the third center of motion.   
     
     
         4 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to move the first cannula in pitch and yaw around the first center of motion, and wherein the second robotic manipulator is configured to move the second cannula in pitch and yaw around the second center of motion.   
     
     
         5 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the rigid curved section of the first cannula consists essentially of a single planar curve.   
     
     
         6 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the rigid curved section of the first cannula consists essentially of a compound curve.   
     
     
         7 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first cannula comprises a rigid straight section between the curved section and the distal end.   
     
     
         8 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first cannula comprises a rigid straight section between the curved section and the distal end;   wherein the rigid straight section of the first cannula comprises a distal end; and   wherein an inner diameter of the first cannula at the distal end of the rigid straight section is less than an inner diameter of the first cannula at the curved section.   
     
     
         9 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first cannula comprises a rigid straight section between the curved section and the distal end;   wherein the first cannula comprises a sleeve within the rigid straight section through which the first surgical instrument extends; and   wherein the sleeve comprises a rounded inner distal lip at the distal end of the first curved cannula and an inner diameter smaller than an inner diameter of the distal end of the first cannula.   
     
     
         10 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first and second cannulas each extend into and through the single opening in the patient&#39;s body in directions different from one another.   
     
     
         11 . The surgical system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 a mechanical key feature that maintains the first cannula in a particular roll orientation with reference to the first robotic manipulator. 
 
     
     
         12 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the first cannula comprises a feature at or near the proximal end of the first cannula; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator comprises a sensor that senses the presence of the feature at or near the proximal end of the first cannula.   
     
     
         13 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein a proximal end of the first surgical instrument is coupled to the first robotic manipulator; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to roll the shaft of the first surgical instrument within the first cannula.   
     
     
         14 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein a proximal end of the first surgical instrument is coupled to the first robotic manipulator; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to insert and withdraw the shaft of the first surgical instrument within the first cannula.   
     
     
         15 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the single opening in the patient&#39;s body comprises a single opening in the patient&#39;s skin, a first opening in a body layer underlying the skin, and a second opening in the body layer underlying the skin;   wherein the first cannula is positioned to extend through the single opening in the skin and the first opening in the body layer underlying the skin, the first center of motion being at the first opening the body layer underlying the skin; and   wherein the second cannula is positioned to extend through the single opening in the skin and the second opening in the body layer underlying the skin, the second center of motion being at the second opening of the body layer underlying the skin.   
     
     
         16 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the flexible shaft of the first surgical instrument comprises a first passively flexible section that slides within the curved section of the first cannula and a second passively flexible section that extends beyond the distal end of the first cannula.   
     
     
         17 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the distal ends of the first and second cannulas are positioned to provide triangulation at the surgical site for the distal ends of the first and second surgical instruments.   
     
     
         18 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the curved section of the first cannula comprises a re-bendable, rigidizable apparatus.   
     
     
         19 . A surgical system comprising:
 a first robotic manipulator;   a first cannula comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and a rigid curved section between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the proximal end of the first cannula is coupled to the first robotic manipulator;   a first surgical instrument comprising a flexible shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the first cannula;   a second robotic manipulator;   a second cannula comprising a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the second cannula is rigid and straight between the proximal and distal ends, and wherein the proximal end of the second cannula is coupled to the second robotic manipulator; and   a second surgical instrument comprising a shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the second cannula;   wherein the first cannula extends through a single opening in a patient&#39;s body in a direction away from a line that extends between the opening in the patient&#39;s body and a surgical site within the patient&#39;s body, and wherein the curved section of the first cannula arcs within the patient&#39;s body towards the surgical site and directs the distal end of the first surgical instrument towards the surgical site;   wherein the second cannula extends through the single opening in the patient&#39;s body directly towards the surgical sight to direct the distal end of the second surgical instrument towards the surgical site; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to move the first cannula around a first center of motion, wherein the second robotic manipulator is configured to move the second cannula around a second center of motion, wherein the first and second centers of motion are positioned proximate to one another at the opening in the patient&#39;s body, and wherein movement of the first and second cannulas by their respective associated first and second robotic manipulators around their respective first and second centers of motion is independent of one another.   
     
     
         20 . A method of enabling a robotic surgical system to access a surgical site within a patient&#39;s body via a single opening in the patient&#39;s body, comprising the acts of:
 providing a first cannula comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and a rigid curved section between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the proximal end of the first cannula is configured to be coupled to a first robotic manipulator;   providing a first surgical instrument comprising a flexible shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the first cannula;   providing a second cannula comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and a rigid curved section between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the proximal end of the second cannula is configured to be coupled to a second robotic manipulator; and   providing a second surgical instrument comprising a flexible shaft that extends through and beyond the distal end of the second cannula;   wherein the first and second cannulas each extend through the single opening in the patient&#39;s body in a direction away from a line that extends between the opening in the patient&#39;s body and the surgical site, and wherein the curved sections of the first and second cannulas each arc within the patient&#39;s body towards the surgical site and direct distal ends of their respective associated first and second surgical instruments towards the surgical site; and   wherein the first robotic manipulator is configured to move the first cannula around a first center of motion, wherein the second robotic manipulator is configured to move the second cannula around a second center of motion, wherein the first and second centers of motion are positioned proximate to one another at the opening in the patient&#39;s body, and wherein movement of the first and second cannulas by their respective associated first and second robotic manipulators around their respective first and second centers of motion is independent of one another.   
     
     
         21 . The method of  claim 20 :
 wherein the flexible shaft of the first surgical instrument comprises a first passively flexible section that slides within the curved section of the first cannula and a second passively flexible section that extends beyond the distal end of the first cannula.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. ______ (filed ______) [attorney docket no. ISRG 02390/US] (disclosing “Curved Cannula”), which claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61/245,171 (filed Sep. 23, 2009)(disclosing “Curved Cannula”), both of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
     This application may be related to the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. ______ (filed ______) [attorney docket no. ISRG 02392/US] (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System Control”), U.S. patent application Ser. No. ______ (filed ______) [attorney docket no. ISRG 02393/US] (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”), U.S. patent application Ser. No. ______ (filed ______) [attorney docket no. ISRG 02394/US] (disclosing “Surgical Port Feature”), and U.S. patent application Ser. No. ______ (filed ______)[attorney docket no. ISRG 02395/US] (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), all of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     1. Field of Invention 
     Inventive aspects pertain to minimally invasive surgery, more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems, and still more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems that work through a single entry point into the patient&#39;s body. 
     2. Art 
     Benefits of minimally invasive surgery are well known, and they include less patient trauma, less blood loss, and faster recovery times when compared to traditional, open incision surgery. In addition, the use of robotic surgical systems (e.g., teleoperated robotic systems that provide telepresence), such as the da Vinci® Surgical System manufactured by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif. is known. Such robotic surgical systems may allow a surgeon to operate with intuitive control and increased precision when compared to manual minimally invasive surgeries. 
     To further red...
