# Patent: US-2024122610-A1

## Title
Methods and systems for bone mounted robotic-assisted hip and shoulder surgical systems

## Abstract
Aspects of present disclosures involve systems, methods, and apparatus for a bone mounted robotic-assisted orthopedic surgery system for precise implant position, soft tissue balancing, and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly partial or total knee replacement procedure. The system features a bone-mounted robotic arm with an end-effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool, positioning of implants, and balancing of soft tissues. The reconfigurable robotic system requires minimal training by surgeons, is intuitive to use similar to conventional instrumented surgery, and has a small footprint. The system works with existing, conventional instruments, patient-specific instruments, sensor-assisted systems, and computer-assisted systems and does not require increased surgical time and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems and computer-assisted technologies.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20231220
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Unik Orthopedics, Inc.
- **Inventors**: Chi, Charlie Wen-Ren
- **CPC Codes**: A61B17/1742, A61B17/1703, A61B34/10, A61B34/30, A61B90/06, A61B2034/108, A61B2090/066, A61B34/76, A61B2090/065, A61B2090/08021, A61B34/32, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B34/20, A61B2034/2065, A61B2017/568, A61B17/175, A61B17/15, A61B17/1746, A61B17/1778, A61B17/1659, A61B17/1666

## Claims
What is claimed: 
     
         1 . A system for performing a surgical arthroplasty procedure, the system comprising:
 a configurable bone-mounted robotic device attached to an anterior inferior iliac spine of a patient&#39;s anatomy via at least one guide pin, an orientation of the guide pin based on a drill guide of a customized registration guide defining an oriented workspace for the surgical arthroplasty procedure and generated from locating a plurality of landmark locations within a plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, the plurality of landmark locations defining the oriented workspace for the surgical arthroplasty procedure;   an acetabular reamer connected to a motor controlled by a motor controller and positioned within the oriented workspace for the surgical arthroplasty procedure by the configurable bone-mounted robotic device;   a force sensor in mechanical communication with the acetabular reamer; and   a computing device comprising;
 at least one processing device; and 
 a non-transitory memory device in communication with the at least one processing device for storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the at least one processing device, cause the computing device to:
 receive force information from the force sensor; and 
 adjust, based on the received force information, a position of the bone-mounted robotic device. 
 
   
     
     
         2 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the force sensor is a torque sensor and the information indicates a torque force of the acetabular reamer on a portion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         3 . The system of  claim 2  wherein the one or more instructions further cause the computing device to adjust a rotations-per-minute (RPM) of the acetabular reamer based on the information indicating the torque force of the acetabular reamer on the portion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         4 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the force sensor is a torque sensor determining a torque force of the acetabular reamer, and wherein adjusting the position of the bone-mounted robotic device is further based on the determined torque force received from the torque sensor. 
     
     
         5 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the configurable bone-mounted robotic device comprises a hexapod robotic device with six degrees of freedom, the hexapod robotic device comprising a base plate, top plate, and a plurality of prismatic joints between the base plate and the top plate. 
     
     
         6 . The system of  claim 5  wherein the acetabular reamer passes through the base plate and the top plate of the hexapod robotic device along a reaming axis defined by the oriented workspace for the surgical arthroplasty procedure. 
     
     
         7 . The system of  claim 5  wherein the plurality of prismatic joints attach to the base plate at a first end in pairs via a connector joint, the connector joint one of a universal joint, a spherical joint, or a ball joint. 
     
     
         8 . The system of  claim 7  wherein the plurality of prismatic joints attach, at a second end opposite the first end, to the top plate via a universal joint. 
     
     
         9 . The system of  claim 5  wherein the base plate comprises a center slot through which the acetabular reamer is inserted during the surgical arthroplasty procedure. 
     
     
         10 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the computing device is further caused to:
 adjust a speed of the acetabular reamer based on the received force information. 
 
     
     
         11 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the computing device is further caused to:
 adjust a position of the acetabular reamer based on the received force information. 
 
     
     
         12 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the customized registration guide comprises a circular portion, at least three cylindrical mating shapes extending from the circular portion, and a triangular portion. 
     
     
         13 . The system of  claim 12  wherein the customized registration guide further comprises one or more drill hole guides extending outward from the triangular portion. 
     
     
         14 . The system of  claim 12  wherein the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contact a rim of an acetabular portion of the patient&#39;s anatomy when mated. 
     
     
         15 . The system of  claim 14  wherein a first of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts a pubic portion of the rim of the acetabular portion, a second of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts an ischial portion of the rim of the acetabular portion, and a third of the at least three mating shapes of the customized registration guide contacts an ischium portion of the rim of the acetabular portion. 
     
     
         16 . The system of  claim 12  wherein the customized registration guide further comprises an elliptical mating feature extending from the triangular portion, the elliptical mating featuring contacting anatomy of the patient at a junction of a pubis and ilium near an anterior inferior iliac spine to prevent the guide from rotating during joint arthroplasty procedure. 
     
     
         17 . The system of  claim 1  wherein the customized registration guide comprises a femoral resection guide for mating to a femoral head of the anatomy of the patient during the surgical arthroplasty procedure. 
     
     
         18 . The system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 a vision system tracking a path of the acetabular reamer and transmitting tracking information to the computing device, wherein the computing device adjusts the position of the bone-mounted robotic device based further on the transmitted tracking information.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION 
     This application is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 17/546,626 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR BONE MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED HIP AND SHOULDER SURGICAL SYSTEMS” that was filed on Dec. 9, 2021, and is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Patent Application No. 63/124,697, filed Dec. 11, 2020 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR BONE MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED HIP AND SHOULDER SURGICAL SYSTEMS,” the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for creating and manufacturing customized surgical guides. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to methods for creating bone mounted guides customized to a particular patient from one or more two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s hip or shoulder taken from an imaging device. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Through repeated heavy lifting, traumatic events, bone disease and/or arthritis, a patient&#39;s joints, such as the knee, hip, shoulder, and ankle may become degenerated, damaged or loosened to the point that pain or paralysis does not respond to medication or other forms of non-surgical treatments. One type of surgical procedure to address the patient&#39;s pain or deformity is total or partial joint arthroplasty. 
     A joint replacement procedure involves removing parts of an arthritic or damaged joint and replaced with a metal, plastic, or ceramic device called a prosthesis. The prosthesis or artificial joint is designed to replicate the movement of a normal, healthy joint. For example, the damaged hip joint is replaced with a metal ball attached to a metal stem that is fitted into the femur (the upper end of the femur), and a plastic liner with a metal socket is implanted into the pelvis, replacing the damaged acetabulum. Also, components that are properly positioned and orient...
