# Patent: US-2018008358-A1

## Title
Apparatus, systems, and methods for precise guidance of surgical tools

## Abstract
Described herein are systems, apparatus, and methods for precise placement and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgical procedure. The system features a portable robot arm with end effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool. The system requires only minimal training by surgeons/operators, is intuitive to use, and has a small footprint with significantly reduced obstruction of the operating table. The system works with existing, standard surgical tools, does not required increased surgical time or preparatory time, and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20170922
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Kb Medical, Sa
- **Inventors**: KOSTRZEWSKI SZYMON, CHAPPUIS OLIVIER, NUSSBAUMER BILLY, GEHRIGER DANIEL, BERTHELIN RODERIK
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/37, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B2090/064, A61B34/76, A61B17/1615, A61B34/70, A61B34/30, A61B2034/2055, A61B2090/376, A61B90/06, A61B2090/066, A61B34/20, A61B90/11, A61B90/37, A61B2090/3762, A61B2034/107, A61B34/10

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A surgical system for performing a robotically assisted medical procedure on a patient, said system comprising:
 a robot arm;   an end-effector attached to the robot arm, wherein the end-effector is configured to releasably hold a surgical instrument;   a control interface configured to receive commands and to control operation of the robot arm, wherein the control interface is in electronic communication with a computing system and a memory unit;   an actuator, in electronic communication with the control interface, configured to move the robot arm; and   a tracking detector configured to capture a position of the surgical instrument in relation to the patient.   
     
     
         2 . The system of  claim 1  further comprising a display screen configured to display the position of the surgical instrument. 
     
     
         3 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the display screen displays a projected trajectory of the robot arm based on a position of the robot arm in relation to the patient. 
     
     
         4 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the tracking detector is a camera. 
     
     
         5 . The system of  claim 3 , wherein tracking detector is an infrared camera. 
     
     
         6 . The system of  claim 1  further comprising at least one force sensor disposed between the end-effector and the robot arm. 
     
     
         7 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein robot arm is housed on a mobile cart. 
     
     
         8 . The system of  claim 7 , further comprising a stabilization mechanism configured to increase stiffness of the mobile cart to ensure accuracy of the medical procedure. 
     
     
         9 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the robot arm includes a locking mechanism. 
     
     
         10 . The system of  claim 1  further comprising a surgical drape positioned between the robot arm and the end-effector. 
     
     
         11 . A surgical system for performing a robotically assisted medical procedure on a patient, said system comprising:
 a robot arm;   an end-effector removably attached to the robot arm, wherein the end-effector is configured to releasably hold a surgical instrument;   an actuator configured to move the robot arm; and   a tracking detector configured to capture a position of the surgical instrument in relation to the patient.   
     
     
         12 . The system of  claim 11  further comprising a display screen configured to display the position of the surgical instrument. 
     
     
         13 . The system of  claim 11 , wherein the display screen displays a projected trajectory of the robot arm based on a position of the robot arm in relation to the patient. 
     
     
         14 . The system of  claim 11 , wherein the tracking detector is a camera. 
     
     
         15 . The system of  claim 13 , wherein tracking detector is an infrared camera. 
     
     
         16 . The system of  claim 11  further comprising at least one force sensor disposed between the end-effector and the robot arm. 
     
     
         17 . The system of  claim 11 , wherein robot arm is housed on a mobile cart. 
     
     
         18 . The system of  claim 17 , further comprising a stabilization mechanism configured to increase stiffness of the mobile cart to ensure accuracy of the medical procedure. 
     
     
         19 . The system of  claim 11 , wherein the robot arm includes a locking mechanism. 
     
     
         20 . The system of  claim 11  further comprising a surgical drape positioned between the robot arm and the end-effector.

## Description Snippet
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/947,674, filed on Nov. 20, 2015 and titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2016-0081754), which is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/266,769, filed Apr. 30, 2014, titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9,283,048), which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/887,273, titled “Apparatus, Systems, and Methods for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” and filed Oct. 4, 2013 (expired), the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Robotic-assisted surgical systems have been developed to improve surgical precision and enable the implementation of new surgical procedures. For example, robotic systems have been developed to sense a surgeon&#39;s hand movements and translate them to scaled-down micro-movements and filter out unintentional tremors for precise microsurgical techniques in organ transplants, reconstructions, and minimally invasive surgeries. Other robotic systems are directed to telemanipulation of surgical tools such that the surgeon does not have to be present in the operating room, thereby facilitating remote surgery. Feedback-controlled robotic systems have also been developed to provide smoother manipulation of a surgical tool during a procedure than could be achieved by an unaided surgeon. 
     However, widespread acceptance of robotic systems by surgeons and hospitals is limited for a variety of reasons. Current systems are expensive to own and maintain. They often require extensive preoperative surgical planning prior to use, and they extend the required preparation time in the operating room. They are physically intrusive, possibly obscuring portions of a surgeon&#39;s f...
