# Patent: US-2015045814-A1

## Title
Curved cannula surgical system control

## Abstract
A robotic surgical system is configured with rigid, curved cannulas that extend through the same opening into a patient&#39;s body. Surgical instruments with passively flexible shafts extend through the curved cannulas. The cannulas are oriented to direct the instruments towards a surgical site. A teleoperation control system that moves the curved cannulas and their associated instruments in a manner that allows a surgeon to experience intuitive control is disclosed. The flexible shaft instruments are controlled as if extending along a virtual straight line insertion and withdrawal axis. Various port features that support the curved cannulas within the single opening are disclosed. Cannula support fixtures that support the cannulas during insertion into the single opening and mounting to robotic manipulators are disclosed.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20141024
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PRISCO GIUSEPPE MARIA, AU SAMUEL
- **CPC Codes**: A61B19/2203, A61B2019/2211, A61B2017/2905, A61B17/3421, A61B90/50, A61B17/3498, A61B17/3474, A61B90/92, A61B2017/0419, A61B34/30, A61B2017/2929, A61B2017/3454, A61B2017/2904, A61B34/73, A61B90/37, A61B2017/3447, A61B17/3439, A61B34/76, A61M25/0105, A61B1/00193, A61B2017/3419, A61B2017/2948, A61B1/313, A61B2017/3445, A61B1/00149, A61B2017/00526, A61B2034/301, A61B34/71, A61B2017/2936, A61M25/0041, A61B2034/305, A61B17/3423, Y10S901/00, A61B34/37, A61B90/90, A61B2017/00845, A61B2017/00473, A61B2034/2061, A61B17/3462, A61B2017/3466, A61B34/10, A61B17/3431, A61B2017/3429, A61B17/0218, A61B90/03

## Claims
We claim: 
     
         1 . A surgical system comprising:
 a master manipulator;   a robotic slave manipulator;   a curved cannula coupled to the robotic slave manipulator;   a passively flexible instrument shaft that extends past a distal end of the curved cannula; and   a control system;   wherein a straight line instrument insertion and withdrawal axis is defined extending from a longitudinal center axis of the curved cannula at a distal end of the curved cannula; and   wherein in response to a movement of the master manipulator, the control system commands the robotic manipulator to move the distal end of the curved cannula around a remote center of motion as if the instrument shaft is positioned straight along the instrument insertion and withdrawal axis.   
     
     
         2 . The surgical system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 an endoscope, wherein a frame of reference is defined for an image captured by the endoscope; 
 a display, wherein a frame of reference is defined for an image output by the display; and 
 a surgical end effector coupled to a distal end of the instrument shaft; 
 wherein the endoscope&#39;s frame of reference and the display&#39;s frame of reference correspond to one another; 
 wherein the display outputs an image of the end effector; and 
 wherein the control system receives a master command corresponding to a movement of a portion of the master manipulator in a particular direction with respect to the display&#39;s frame of reference, and in response to receiving the master command the control system outputs a slave command to the slave manipulator to move the end effector in substantially the same particular direction with respect to the endoscope&#39;s frame of reference. 
 
     
     
         3 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the control system prevents a distal portion of the instrument shaft from extending beyond a preset limit distance past the distal end of the curved cannula; and   wherein the preset limit is determined by a stiffness of the distal portion of the instrument shaft.   
     
     
         4 . The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the control system prevents movements of the master manipulator from moving the cannula or the instrument until a distal end tip of the surgical instrument extends beyond the distal end of the cannula.   
     
     
         5 . The surgical system of  claim 4 :
 wherein the control system prevents movements of the master manipulator from moving the cannula or instrument by activating a servomotor to provide a haptic force experienced by an operator of the master manipulator.   
     
     
         6 . The surgical system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 a surgical end effector coupled to the distal end of the flexible shaft without a wrist mechanism between the flexible shaft and the end effector; 
 wherein the master manipulator is configured to receive an input from an operator of the master manipulator to move a surgical instrument wrist mechanism; and 
 wherein the control system activates a servomotor associated with the master manipulator to provide a haptic force experienced by the operator that effectively prevents the operator from making the input to move the surgical instrument wrist mechanism. 
 
     
     
         7 . The surgical system of  claim 1  further comprising:
 a second curved cannula comprising a distal end; 
 wherein the curved cannula comprises a curved section and a straight section between the curved section and the distal end of the curved cannula; 
 wherein the second curved cannula comprises a curved section and a straight section between the curved section and the distal end of the second curved cannula; 
 wherein a bend radius of the curved section of the curved cannula is substantially the same as a bend radius of the curved section of the second curved cannula; 
 wherein a length of the straight section of the curved cannula is different from a length of the straight section of the second curved cannula; and 
 wherein the control system controls movement of the curved cannula and the second curved cannula with the same kinematic control parameters. 
 
     
     
         8 . The surgical system of  claim 7 :
 wherein the kinematic control parameter comprises a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter.   
     
     
         9 . A method of control in a robotic surgical system, comprising the acts of:
 defining a straight line instrument insertion and withdrawal axis extending from a longitudinal center axis of a curved cannula at a distal end of the curved cannula coupled to a robotic slave manipulator;   receiving a master command from a master manipulator to move a distal end of a surgical instrument; and   in response to receiving the master command, outputting a slave command to the slave manipulator to move the curved cannula around a remote center of motion as if a shaft of the surgical instrument that extends through the curved cannula and past the distal end of the curved cannula is positioned straight along the instrument insertion and withdrawal axis.   
     
     
         10 . The method of  claim 9 :
 wherein the remote center of motion is located on the curved cannula.   
     
     
         11 . The method of  claim 9 :
 wherein the master command comprises information associated with a particular orientation of a portion of the master manipulator in a reference frame defined for an image output by a display; and   wherein the slave command comprises a command to the slave manipulator to move an end effector of the surgical instrument to substantially the same particular orientation in a reference frame defined for an image of the end effector captured by an endoscope.   
     
     
         12 . The method of  claim 9 :
 wherein the master command corresponds to a movement of a portion of the master manipulator in a particular direction with respect to a reference frame defined for an image output by a display; and   wherein the slave command comprises a command to the slave manipulator to move an end effector of the surgical instrument in substantially the same particular direction in a reference frame defined for an image of the end effector captured by an endoscope.   
     
     
         13 . The method of  claim 9  further comprising:
 automatically preventing a distal portion of the surgical instrument from extending beyond a preset limit distance past the distal end of the curved cannula; 
 wherein the preset limit is determined by a stiffness of the distal portion of the instrument shaft. 
 
     
     
         14 . The method of  claim 9 :
 wherein outputting the slave command occurs only if a distal end tip of the surgical instrument extends beyond the distal end of the cannula.   
     
     
         15 . The method of  claim 9  further comprising:
 outputting a haptic force to an operator of the master manipulator; 
 wherein the haptic force effectively prevents the operator&#39;s master manipulator movement. 
 
     
     
         16 . The method of  claim 9  further comprising:
 outputting a haptic force to an operator of the master manipulator; 
 wherein the haptic force effectively prevents the operator&#39;s movement of a portion of the master manipulator associated with control of a surgical instrument wrist mechanism. 
 
     
     
         17 . The method of  claim 9  further comprising:
 generating the slave command based on kinematic information associated with the curved cannula; 
 wherein the curved cannula comprises a curved section and straight section between the curved section and the distal end of the curved cannula; and 
 wherein the kinematic information excludes information associated with the straight section of the curved cannula. 
 
     
     
         18 . The method of  claim 16 :
 wherein the kinematic information comprises a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,598 (filed Nov. 13, 2009), which is a continuation-in-part of Ser. No. 12/618,549 (filed Nov. 13, 2009, now abandoned), which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61/245,171 (filed Sep. 23, 2009), both of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
     This application may be related to the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,583, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,545,515; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/015,302, filed Aug. 30, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,608, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,551,115; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/025,138, filed Sep. 12, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/073,485, filed Nov. 6, 2013 (disclosing “Surgical Port Feature”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,631, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,465,476; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/898,753, filed May 21, 2013 (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     1. Field of Invention 
     Inventive aspects pertain to minimally invasive surgery, more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems, and still more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems that work through a single entry point into the patient&#39;s body. 
     2. Art. 
     Benefits of minimally invasive surgery are well known, and they include less patient trauma, less blood loss, and faster recovery times when compared to traditional, open incision surgery. In addition, the use of robotic surgical systems (e.g., teleoperated robotic systems that provide telepresence), such as the da Vinci® Surgical System manufactured by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif. is kno...
