# Patent: US-2023310097-A1

## Title
Methods and systems for robotic-assisted surgery using customized bone registration guides

## Abstract
Described within are systems, methods and apparatus for a bone mounted robotic-assisted orthopedic surgery system for precise implant position, soft tissue balancing and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly partial or total knee replacement procedure. The system features a bone mounted robotic arm with end-effector for precise positioning of surgical tool, position in of implants and balancing of soft tissues. The reconfigurable robotic system requires minimal training by surgeons, is intuitive to use similar to conventional instrumented surgery and has a small footprint. The system works with existing, conventional instruments, patient specific instruments, sensor-assisted systems and computer-assisted systems and does not require increased surgical time and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems and computer-assisted technologies.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20230609
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Unik Orthopedics, Inc.
- **Inventors**: Chi, Charlie Wen-Ren
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/30, A61B17/154, A61B17/1764, A61B34/10, B25J17/02, A61B2034/301, A61B2017/00477, A61B17/1746, A61B2017/568, A61B17/175, A61B17/15, A61B17/1757, A61B17/17, A61B2090/066, A61B2090/065, A61B2034/302, A61B90/10, A61B2034/101, A61B2034/2055, A61B2017/00398, A61B2034/105, A61B2034/108, A61B17/1742, A61B2017/00212

## Claims
1 . (canceled) 
     
     
         2 . A method for performing an arthroplasty procedure, the method comprising:
 receiving a plurality of two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s joint the subject of the joint arthroplasty procedure;   generating, based on locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint, a customized registration guide for the patient&#39;s joint for use during the joint arthroplasty procedure; and   mounting, using the customized registration guide, a robotic device on the patient&#39;s anatomy, the robotic device comprising:
 a mounting device in mechanical communication with a first link joint of controller base unit, the mounting device comprising a first configurable link to orient the controller base unit corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 a configurable resection guide in mechanical communication with a second link joint of the controller base unit and oriented to provide a resection guide for the joint arthroplasty procedure. 
   
     
     
         3 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the joint arthroplasty procedure comprising an intra-operative, soft-tissue gap balancing for both static and dynamic motion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         4 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the robotic device is configurable with one of two-degrees, three-degrees, four-degrees, five-degrees, or six-degrees of freedom. 
     
     
         5 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein the controller base unit further comprises an input device and the method further comprises:
 activating the first link joint based on receiving a first input via the input device.   
     
     
         6 . The method of  claim 5  further comprising:
 activating the second link joint based on receiving a second input via the input device. 
 
     
     
         7 . The method of  claim 5  further comprising:
 cycling through a series of activations of the first link joint and the second link joint in response to repeated inputs received via the input device. 
 
     
     
         8 . The method of  claim 2 , further comprising:
 detaching the first configurable link from the first link joint while the mounting device is mounted to the patient&#39;s anatomy via the customized registration guide.   
     
     
         9 . The method of  claim 2 , wherein generating the customized registration guide comprises:
 locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, wherein the customized registration guide comprises a customized surface configured to mate, via the plurality of mating shapes, to a bone of the patient&#39;s anatomy and a registration surface configured to attach to the robotic device.   
     
     
         10 . The method of  claim 9 , wherein the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy comprises a plurality of magnetic-resonance images. 
     
     
         11 . The method of  claim 9 , wherein generating the customized registration guide further comprises:
 identifying one or more landmarks on the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint; and   reorienting the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint based at least on the one or more landmarks.   
     
     
         12 . A surgical system comprising:
 a computing device comprising:
 one or more processors; 
 a communication interface receiving a plurality of two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s joint the subject of a joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 at least one memory storing non-transitory computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to:
 generate, based on locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patients joint, one or more dimensions for a customized registration guide for the patient&#39;s joint for use during the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 
   a robotic device mounted on the patient&#39;s anatomy using the customized registration guide, the robotic device comprising:
 a mounting device in mechanical communication with a first link joint of controller base unit, the mounting device comprising a first configurable link to orient the controller base unit corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 a configurable resection guide in mechanical communication with a second link joint of the controller base unit and oriented to provide a resection guide for the joint arthroplasty procedure. 
   
     
     
         13 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the first configurable link comprises:
 a rotational link in mechanical communication with a translational link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to a linear link.   
     
     
         14 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the first configurable link comprises:
 a first rotational link configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the controller base unit; and   a second rotational link in mechanical communication with the first rotational link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the first rotational link.   
     
     
         15 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the controller base unit comprises a plurality of link joints each in mechanical communication with one of a plurality of activators, each of the plurality of link joints providing one-degree of rotational freedom. 
     
     
         16 . The surgical system of  claim 15 , wherein the controller base unit further comprises:
 a communication port receiving instructions to control the plurality of activators according to the joint arthroplasty procedure.   
     
     
         17 . The surgical system of  claim 15 , wherein the controller base unit further comprises:
 an input device receiving inputs to control the plurality of activators.   
     
     
         18 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the joint arthroplasty procedure comprises an intra-operative, soft-tissue gap balancing for both static and dynamic motion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         19 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the robotic device is configurable with one of two-degrees, three-degrees, four-degrees, five-degrees, or six-degrees of freedom. 
     
     
         20 . The surgical system of  claim 12  wherein the first configurable link is detachable from the first link joint while the mounting device is mounted to the patient&#39;s anatomy via the customized registration guide. 
     
     
         21 . The surgical system of  claim 12 , wherein the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy comprises a plurality of magnetic-resonance images.

## Description Snippet
RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation of and is related to U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 17/091,516, filed Nov. 6, 2020 entitled “METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Patent Application No. 62/933,874, filed Nov. 11, 2019 entitled “BONE-MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGICAL SYSTEMS,” and from U.S. Patent Application No. 63/090,384, filed Oct. 12, 2020 entitled “ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for creating and utilizing customized arthroplasty registration guides in joint replacement procedures. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to methods for creating arthroplasty registration guides customized to a particular patient for use in robot-assisted surgical procedures that provide three-dimensional reference information of the patient to the surgical robot to orient a surgical plan for execution by the surgical robot, including bone-mounted surgical robots. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Through repeated heavy lifting, traumatic events, bone disease and/or arthritis, a patient&#39;s joints, such as knee, hip, shoulder and ankle may become degenerated, damaged or loosened to the point that pain or paralysis does not respond to medication or other forms of non-surgical treatments. One type of procedure to address damage to a person&#39;s joint is a total or partial joint arthroplasty procedure. Arthroplasty is a medical procedure where a joint of a patient is replaced, remodeled, or realigned, often done to relieve pain in the joint after damage. Damage to the joint may result in a reduction or wearing away of cartilage in the joint area, which operates to provide frictional, compressive, shear, an...
