# Patent: US-2025235211-A1

## Title
End tool of surgical instrument, and surgical instrument comprising same

## Abstract
The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20250412
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Livsmed Inc.
- **Inventors**: LEE, Jaeyeong, KIM, JUNGHWAN, LEE, JUNG JOO, KIM, HEEJIN, JANG, Dongkyu
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2034/305, A61B2017/2939, A61B2017/2937, A61B2017/2936, A61B2017/2927, A61B2017/291, A61B2017/07285, A61B2017/07278, A61B2017/07271, A61B34/71, A61B17/295, A61B17/07207

## Claims
1 . A cartridge of a surgical instrument having an end tool rotatable in at least one direction, the cartridge comprising:
 a housing;   a cover configured to cover one surface of the housing and having a slit formed in a first direction that is a length direction of the housing;   a plurality of staples disposed in the first direction inside the housing;   a reciprocating member disposed inside the housing and formed to be relatively movable in the first direction with respect to the housing; and   an operation member formed at one side of the reciprocating member, including a contact member formed to be in contact with the reciprocating member, and formed to be movable in the first direction by the reciprocating member,   wherein, when the reciprocating member is moved toward a distal end of the cartridge, a relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is restricted by the contact member, so that the reciprocating member and the operation member are moved together, and   when the reciprocating member is moved toward a proximal end of the cartridge, the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is possible, so that only the reciprocating member is moved.   
     
     
         2 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein the reciprocating member is connected to a staple drive assembly formed on the end tool, and is moved in the first direction when a staple pulley of the staple drive assembly is rotated. 
     
     
         3 . The cartridge of  claim 2 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is alternately rotated in a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction,   the reciprocating member connected to the staple drive assembly is alternately moved toward the distal end and the proximal end of the cartridge.   
     
     
         4 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein
 when the reciprocating member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, the contact member and the reciprocating member are in a fitted state, so that the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is restricted, and   when the reciprocating member is moved toward the proximal end of the cartridge, the fitted state between the contact member and the reciprocating member is released, so that the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is possible.   
     
     
         5 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein the operation member is movable only toward the distal end of the cartridge, and restricted in movement toward the proximal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
         6 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein the operation member and the reciprocating member form a one-way clutch that allows movement in one direction but restricts movement in a direction opposite to the one direction. 
     
     
         7 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein
 the operation member includes:   a body;   one or more wedges formed at one side of the body and each including an inclined surface formed to have a greater height at a proximal end side of the cartridge than a distal end side of the cartridge; and   a blade formed at one side of the wedge and including an edge formed to be sharp,   wherein the contact member is disposed in an accommodation part formed on one surface of the body.   
     
     
         8 . The cartridge of  claim 7 , wherein
 when the reciprocating member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge,   the contact member and the reciprocating member are in a fitted state to allow the reciprocating member to push the operation member including the contact member, so that the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge.   
     
     
         9 . The cartridge of  claim 7 , wherein
 when the reciprocating member is moved toward the proximal end of the cartridge,   the operation member remains stationary with respect to the one direction.   
     
     
         10 . The cartridge of  claim 7 , wherein the contact member is formed to be spaced apart from the reciprocating member by a certain extent when the reciprocating member is moved toward the proximal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
         11 . The cartridge of  claim 7 , further comprising an elastic member formed between the body and the contact member and configured to provide an elastic force to press the contact member in one direction. 
     
     
         12 . The cartridge of  claim 11 , wherein
 an inclined part is formed on a surface of the accommodation part, which is formed on the body, facing the reciprocating member, and
 a width of the accommodation part becomes narrower toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
   
     
     
         13 . The cartridge of  claim 12 , wherein
 a spacing between the inclined part and the reciprocating member decreases toward the distal end of the cartridge.   
     
     
         14 . The cartridge of  claim 13 , wherein
 when the contact member is pressed in a direction in which the spacing between the inclined part and the reciprocating member decreases,   the contact member and the reciprocating member are in a fitted state, so that the relative movement between the reciprocating member and the operation member is blocked.   
     
     
         15 . The cartridge of  claim 12 , wherein
 when the contact member is in a fitted state by being simultaneously in contact with the operation member and the reciprocating member, a locked state is entered in which the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is blocked, and   when the contact member is separated from at least one side of the operation member and the reciprocating member and thus the fitted state is released, an unlocked state is entered in which the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is possible.   
     
     
         16 . The cartridge of  claim 12 , wherein the elastic member presses the contact member in a direction in which a spacing between the inclined part and the reciprocating member decreases. 
     
     
         17 . The cartridge of  claim 11 , wherein the contact member is formed such that a center distance is different for each region, wherein the center distance is a distance from a center of rotation of the contact member to an end portion of the contact member. 
     
     
         18 . The cartridge of  claim 17 , wherein
 when a region of the contact member, in which the center distance is relatively large, is in contact with the reciprocating member, the contact member and the reciprocating member are in a fitted state, so that the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is restricted, and   when a region of the contact member, in which the center distance is relatively small, is in contact with the reciprocating member, the fitted state between the contact member and the reciprocating member is released, so that the relative movement between the operation member and the reciprocating member is possible.   
     
     
         19 . The cartridge of  claim 17 , wherein the contact member includes a body, and a protrusion protruding from the body and formed to be in contact with the reciprocating member,
 wherein the protrusion includes a long axis part in which the center distance is relatively large, and a short axis part in which the center distance is relatively small.   
     
     
         20 . The cartridge of  claim 19 , wherein
 when a torque is applied to the contact member in a direction in which the long axis part is in contact with the reciprocating member, the contact member and the reciprocating member are in a fitted state, and   when a torque is applied to the contact member in a direction in which the short axis part is in contact with the reciprocating member, the fitted state between the contact member and the reciprocating member is released.   
     
     
         21 . The cartridge of  claim 19 , wherein the contact member is formed such that the center distance from the center of the body to an end portion of the protrusion increases toward the proximal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
         22 . The cartridge of  claim 19 , wherein the elastic member presses the contact member in a direction in which the long axis part is in contact with the reciprocating member. 
     
     
         23 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein the cartridge is a sprag. 
     
     
         24 . The cartridge of  claim 1 , wherein the contact member is a cam that is rotated around a predetermined rotation axis.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S) 
     This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 18/593,392 filed on Mar. 1, 2024, which is a continuation application of international application No. PCT/KR2022/013250, filed on Sep. 5, 2022, and claims priority to Korean Patent Application No. 10-2021-0117997, filed on Sep. 3, 2021, with the Korean Intellectual Property Office, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same. 
     BACKGROUND ART 
     In recent years, laparoscopic surgery has been actively utilized to reduce postoperative recovery time and complications through small incisions. The laparoscopic surgery is a surgical method in which a plurality of small holes are drilled in the abdomen of a patient and the inside of the abdominal cavity is observed through these holes, and is widely used in general surgery and the like. 
     In performing the laparoscopic surgery, a suturing instrument inserted into the body is used to suture a surgical site in the abdominal cavity, and a surgical stapler for suturing the surgical site using medical staples is used as the suturing instrument. 
     In general, a surgical stapler is a medical instrument that is often used for cutting and anastomosis of an organ in abdominal and thoracic surgery. The surgical stapler includes an open stapler used in thoracotomy and laparotomy and an endo stapler used in thoracoscopic surgery and celiosco...
