# Patent: US-2016081754-A1

## Title
Apparatus, systems, and methods for precise guidance of surgical tools

## Abstract
Described herein are systems, apparatus, and methods for precise placement and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgical procedure. The system features a portable robot arm with end effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool. The system requires only minimal training by surgeons/operators, is intuitive to use, and has a small footprint with significantly reduced obstruction of the operating table. The system works with existing, standard surgical tools, does not required increased surgical time or preparatory time, and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20151120
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: KB Medical SA
- **Inventors**: KOSTRZEWSKI SZYMON, CHAPPUIS OLIVIER, NUSSBAUMER BILLY, GEHRIGER DANIEL, BERTHELIN RODERIK
- **CPC Codes**: A61B90/06, A61B2034/107, A61B2090/3762, A61B2090/376, A61B90/37, A61B2034/2055, A61B34/70, A61B90/11, A61B34/10, A61B2090/066, A61B34/30, A61B34/20, A61B34/37, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B2090/064, A61B34/76, A61B17/1615, A61B19/201, A61B19/2203, A61B2019/2223, A61B19/46, A61B2019/466

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A robotic surgical system for performing surgery that permits a surgeon to manually move an end-effector of a robotic arm to a desired position during an operation, the system comprising:
 the robotic arm comprising the end-effector;   a force sensor attached to the robotic arm;   a handle extending from the end effector that may be grasped by a hand of a user to position the end effector with at least four degrees of freedom;   a sensor that detects the presence of the hand of the user on the handle, thereby reducing the likelihood that the end-effector is moved unintentionally; and   a processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to:
 upon detecting, via the sensor, the hand of the user is on to the handle, releasing a locked position of the end effector and permitting controlled movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user. 
   
     
     
         2 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the force sensor is attached to the robotic arm between the end-effector and the robotic arm. 
     
     
         3 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the handle allows movement of the end-effector by the user with at least six degrees of freedom, wherein the six degrees of freedom are three degrees of translations and three degrees of rotations. 
     
     
         4 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein during the operation movement of the end-effector requires detection, by the sensor, of the hand of the user on the handle. 
     
     
         5 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the force sensor located between the robotic arm and the end-effector for measuring forces and/or torques applied by the user to a surgical tool held by the end-effector. 
     
     
         6 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the end-effector comprises a tool holder attached to the robotic arm via a force sensor. 
     
     
         7 . The system of  claim 6 , wherein the tool holder is sized and shaped to hold a first surgical tool. 
     
     
         8 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 an actuator for controlled positioning of the end-effector.   
     
     
         9 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the controlling movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user comprises controlling the actuator to move the end-effector in a direction corresponding to a direction of application of the force. 
     
     
         10 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the controlling movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user comprises moving the end effector at a predetermined measured pace, wherein the predetermined measured pace is a steady, slow velocity. 
     
     
         11 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a tracking detector for real time detection of (i) a position of a surgical tool held by the robotic arm and (ii) a patient&#39;s position.   
     
     
         12 . The system of  claim 11 , wherein the patient&#39;s position is a position of one or more markers arranged to be placed in spatial relation to one or more vertebrae. 
     
     
         13 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to:
 access or generate a virtual representation of a patient&#39;s situation;   obtain a real-time (i) position of the first surgical tool held by the robotic arm and/or end-effector position and (ii) patient&#39;s position from the tracking detector;   determine a projected trajectory based on the (a) position of the first surgical tool held by the robotic arm and (b) the patient&#39;s position from the tracking detector; and   display a real-time representation of the projected trajectory, the first surgical tool position in relation to the real-time patient&#39;s position, wherein determining of the projected trajectory and the displaying of the projected trajectory are automatically updated as the position of the end-effector is changed, thereby providing visual feedback to the user to assist the user in positioning the end-effector at a desired position.   
     
     
         14 . The system of  claim 13 , wherein the desired position is at least one of (i) identified by a surgeon without preoperative planning, (ii) planned with assistance of the robotic surgical system, and (iii) proposed by the robotic surgical system for approval by the surgeon. 
     
     
         15 . The system of  claim 13 , wherein the desired position is planned during the operation. 
     
     
         16 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the handle comprises one or more buttons. 
     
     
         17 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a first tracking marker for allowing tracking of the position of the first surgical tool by the tracking detector; and   a second tracking marker placed in a known spatial relation to one or more vertebrae, thereby allowing tracking of the one or more vertebrae by the tracking detector.   
     
     
         18 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the robotic surgical system allows both robotically-assisted and unassisted positioning of the end-effector by the user via the handle. 
     
     
         19 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to:
 determine whether the force exceeds a predetermined minimum threshold required for movement of the end-effector.   
     
     
         20 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein a mobile cart that permits the robotic surgical system to be moved in and out of operating room, wherein the mobile cart comprises a plurality of wheels for moving the robotic surgical system and a plurality of rigid legs on which the mobile cart sits to stabilize the robotic surgical system on an operating room floor, wherein either the plurality of wheels or the plurality of rigid legs are retractable. 
     
     
         21 . The system of  claim 20 , wherein the plurality of wheels are retractable and the mobile cart rests on the plurality of rigid legs when the plurality of wheels are retracted. 
     
     
         22 . The system of  claim 20 , wherein the plurality of rigid legs are retractable and the mobile cart rests on the plurality of wheels when the plurality of rigid legs are retracted. 
     
     
         23 . The system of  claim 19 , wherein the threshold is greater than or equal to zero. 
     
     
         24 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the end-effector can be positioned with at least four degrees of freedom. 
     
     
         25 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the first surgical tool is a drill bit tube sized and shaped to receive a drill bit, tap, screwdriver, or implant (with or without extender) therethrough. 
     
     
         26 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the surgery is spinal surgery. 
     
     
         27 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the tool holder comprises a tool guide attached to the robotic arm and sized and shaped to slidably receive and/or hold the first surgical tool. 
     
     
         28 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the end-effector is sized and shaped to releasably hold the first surgical tool, allowing the first surgical tool to be removed and replaced with a second surgical tool. 
     
     
         29 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
 upon entry of a user command, control the actuator to translate the end-effector an identified distance in an identified direction and/or to adjust an angle of rotation of the end-effector.   
     
     
         30 . A robotic surgical system for performing surgery that permits a surgeon to manually move an end-effector of a robotic arm to a desired position during an operation, the system comprising:
 a force sensor attached to the robotic arm;   a manipulator that may be grasped by a hand of a user to position the end effector with at least four degrees of freedom;   a sensor; and   a processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to:
 upon detecting, via the sensor, an activation by the user, releasing a locked position of the end effector and permitting controlled movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the manipulator by the user.

## Description Snippet
The present application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/266,769, filed Apr. 30, 2014, entitled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools,” which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/887,273, entitled “Apparatus, Systems, and Methods for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” and filed Oct. 4, 2013, the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Robotic-assisted surgical systems have been developed to improve surgical precision and enable the implementation of new surgical procedures. For example, robotic systems have been developed to sense a surgeon&#39;s hand movements and translate them to scaled-down micro-movements and filter out unintentional tremors for precise microsurgical techniques in organ transplants, reconstructions, and minimally invasive surgeries. Other robotic systems are directed to telemanipulation of surgical tools such that the surgeon does not have to be present in the operating room, thereby facilitating remote surgery. Feedback-controlled robotic systems have also been developed to provide smoother manipulation of a surgical tool during a procedure than could be achieved by an unaided surgeon. 
     However, widespread acceptance of robotic systems by surgeons and hospitals is limited for a variety of reasons. Current systems are expensive to own and maintain. They often require extensive preoperative surgical planning prior to use, and they extend the required preparation time in the operating room. They are physically intrusive, possibly obscuring portions of a surgeon&#39;s field of view and blocking certain areas around the operating table, such that a surgeon and/or surgical assistants are relegated to one side of the operating table. Current systems may also be non-intuitive or otherwise cumbersome to use, particularly for surgeons who have developed a special skill or “feel” for per...
