# Patent: US-2015182403-A1

## Title
A Mobile Robotic Lifting and Transferring System for Bariatric Patients

## Abstract
Obesity has grown into one of the world&#39;s most significant health problems. The field of bariatrics and the quantity of bariatric surgical procedures is projected to continue to increase rapidly each year. This trend presents a challenge to healthcare providers and facilities striving to provide dignified care that is effective and safe both for the patient and the provider. There is a great demand for new approaches to bariatric patient care. The present invention is a robotic patient lifting system, targeted for, but not limited to, bariatric patient care. Without the need for difficult, time consuming slings and hoists associated with currently available systems, the invented lifting and transferring system utilizes rapidly deployable, articulated robotic arms with gentle conveyor belts. A unique linkage system allows powerful, safe, and flexible lifting and positioning of the patient with a minimal number of actuators. The lifting mechanism is mounted on a low profile, stable and flexible footprint, omnidirectional robotic mobile base. A simple, intuitive user interface allows control by a single caregiver with minimal training

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20140102
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Yi-Je Lim
- **Inventors**: LIM YI-JE, HU JIANJUEN, ROBERTS HARRISON, MAKOWSKI SUZANA
- **CPC Codes**: A61G7/1013, A61G7/1025, Y10S901/01, A61G7/1001, A61G2200/327, A61G2203/14, A61G7/1048, A61G2203/18, A61G7/1019, A61G2200/34, A61G7/1036, A61G7/1057, A61G2200/16

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
         1 . A robotic system comprising:
 a vertical linear actuator unit being joined to said drive track unit, said vertical linear actuators comprising at least three actuator assemblies;   at least two lifting manipulation arms being joined to said vertical actuator assembly unit in which said vertical actuator assembly imparts torque and movement to said bimanual manipulation arms for lifting a heavy object, each of said arms comprising a conveyor belt surface;   a drive track unit being operable for moving the robotic system along a floor; and   at least one controlling unit being configured for operating a mobile platform and lifting manipulation arms;   
     
     
         2 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 1 , in which said vertical linear actuator unit is further configurable for various bariatric patient handlings, such as lifting a bariatric patient from a bed and transferring a patient to a standard wheelchair. 
     
     
         3 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 2 , in which said vertical linear actuator unit further comprises at least three linear actuators to move relative to one another to change the vertical position and relative angle of the arms. 
     
     
         4 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 2 , in which said vertical linear actuators further comprise a plurality of linkages being joined to said manipulation arms. 
     
     
         5 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 4 , in which said manipulation arm is configurable horizontally with the patient at bed level to slide under the patient and to lift the patient. 
     
     
         6 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 4 , in which said manipulation arm further comprises said gentle conveyer belts that eliminate any relative motion between the patient&#39;s skin and the surface of the arm. 
     
     
         7 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 4 , in which said manipulation arm further comprises an articulated flipper that rotates up to provide a secure safety stop when the patient is fully on the arms. 
     
     
         8 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 7 , in which said articulated flipper is configured to be removable and replaced by another extreme end comprising a different structure. 
     
     
         9 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 4 , in which said manipulation arm further comprises extension surfaces that emerge from the outward sides of the arms to support the patient&#39;s neck and legs. 
     
     
         10 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 4 , in which said manipulation arms further comprises a fabric efficacious for providing sensitive contact with human skin. 
     
     
         11 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 1 , in which said drive track unit is further configured to increase its dimensions to increase stability of the medical robotic system while lifting objects. 
     
     
         12 . The robotic system as recited in claim Error! Reference source not found., in which said drive track unit is further configured to be holonomic. 
     
     
         13 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 11 , in which said drive track unit further comprises a plurality of mecanum wheels. 
     
     
         14 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 1 , in which said controlling unit further comprises two parts: controls for moving the platform around and the control for the lifting arms. 
     
     
         15 . The robotic system recited in  claim 14 , in which said control for moving the platform utilizes a single operation control unit, moving the operation control unit forward to move the robot forward, moving it sideway to move the robot sideways; rotating it to rotate the robot. 
     
     
         16 . The robotic system recited in  claim 14 , in which said control for lifting arms utilizes the position selector switches, looking like the lifting arms and directly coupled to the position and orientation of the lifting arms. 
     
     
         17 . A robotic system comprising:
 means for operating the robotic system for a heavy patient lifting and transferring;   means, being joined to said operating means, for imparting torque and movement;   means, receiving said torque and movement, being configured for moving an adult patient&#39;s lower body; and   means for moving the robotic system along a floor;   
     
     
         18 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 17 , further comprising means, being joined to said moving means, for increasing stability of the medical robotic system while lifting objects. 
     
     
         19 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 17 , further comprising means for remote operation by caregiver or user. 
     
     
         20 . The robotic system as recited in  claim 17 , further comprising means for adjusting a width of said drive track means for stability and transferring a patient to a standard wheelchair.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     The present Utility patent application claims priority benefit of the U.S. provisional application for patent Ser. No. 61/754,395 filed on Jan. 18, 2013 under 35 U.S.C. 119(e). The contents of this related provisional application are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes to the extent that such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith or limiting hereof. 
    
    
     FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT 
     Not applicable 
     REFERENCE TO SEQUENCE LISTING, A TABLE, OR A COMPUTER LISTING APPENDIX 
     Not applicable. 
     COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
     A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office, patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. 
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
     One or more embodiments of the invention generally relate to robots or mechanisms. More particularly, one or more embodiments of the invention relate to medical or service robots. 
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     The following background information may present examples of specific aspects of the prior art (e.g., without limitation, approaches, facts, or common wisdom) that, while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader as to additional aspects of the prior art, is not to be construed as limiting the present invention, or any embodiments thereof, to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon. 
     The following is an example of a specific aspect in the prior art that, while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader as to additional aspects of the prior art, is not to be construed as limiting the present invention, or any embodiments thereof, to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon. By way of educa...
