# Patent: US-9516996-B2

## Title
Medical robotic system providing computer generated auxiliary views of a camera instrument for controlling the position and orienting of its tip

## Abstract
A medical robotic system includes an entry guide with surgical tools and a camera extending out of its distal end. To supplement the view provided by an image captured by the camera, an auxiliary view including articulatable arms of the surgical tools and/or camera is generated from sensed or otherwise determined information about their positions and orientations and displayed on a display screen from the perspective of a specified viewing point. Intuitive control is provided to an operator with respect to the auxiliary view while the operator controls the positioning and orienting of the camera.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20140917
- **Grant Date**: 20161213
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: DIOLAITI NICOLA, LARKIN DAVID Q., GOMEZ DANIEL H., MUSTUFA TABISH, MOHR PAUL W., LILAGAN PAUL E.
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2034/305, A61B1/0005, A61B2017/00119, A61B1/00045, A61B1/00006, A61B34/30, A61B1/05, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/2074, A61B2090/364, A61B1/00149, A61B1/313, A61B90/36, A61B34/37, A61B2034/301, G09B23/285, A61B2090/365, A61B90/361, A61B34/20, A61B90/03, A61B1/00087, A61B5/065, A61B34/77, A61B1/00154, A61B34/74, G06T7/70, A61B1/00042, A61B1/00009, A61B1/00039, G06T7/004, A61B1/00183, G06V30/224, A61B1/04, B25J3/00, B25J13/08, A61B90/00, A61M29/02, A61B17/24, A61B1/233, A61B1/126, A61B1/00096, A61B1/00066

## Claims
We claim: 
     
       1. A method implemented by a processor for positioning and orienting a distal tip of an articulated image capturing instrument while the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument is extending out of an entry guide, the method comprising:
 determining, by using the processor, a position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument; 
 generating, by using the processor, an auxiliary view of a portion of the articulated image capturing instrument that is extending out of the entry guide by the processor using the determined position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument, wherein the auxiliary view is from a three-dimensional viewing point from which the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument is viewable throughout an available workspace of the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument; 
 displaying, by using the processor, the auxiliary view on a display; and 
 controlling, by using the processor, positioning and orienting the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument in response to movement of an input device by: accounting for misalignment between an orientation of the input device with respect to the auxiliary view being displayed on the display and the determined orientation of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to a control reference frame, and mapping movement of the input device with respect to the auxiliary view being displayed on the display screen to a commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame. 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the control reference frame has an origin located at a point in space where the articulated image capturing instrument extends out of the entry guide. 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the control reference frame has an origin and orientation aligned with a perspective of the auxiliary view being displayed on the display. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1 ,
 wherein the method further comprises determining, by using the processor, a position and orientation of a distal tip of an articulated tool instrument when the distal tip of the articulated tool instrument is extending out of the entry guide; 
 wherein the generated auxiliary view further includes a portion of the articulated tool instrument that is extending out of the entry guide as determined by the processor using the determined position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated tool instrument; and 
 wherein the portion of the articulated tool instrument is viewable throughout an available workspace of the portion of the articulated tool instrument from the three-dimensional viewing point. 
 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein generating, by using the processor, an auxiliary view of a portion of the articulated image capturing instrument that is extending out of the entry guide comprises:
 generating, by using the processor, a view of a computer model of the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument from the perspective of the three-dimensional viewing point. 
 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein mapping movement of the input device with respect to the auxiliary view being displayed on the display screen to a commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame comprises at least one of cancelling translational offsets and scaling the commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame. 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 6 , wherein scaling the commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame comprises scaling the commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame by using a user-selectable scaling factor.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12/366,713 (filed Dec. 17, 2008), which is a continuation-in-part to U.S. application Ser. No. 12/163,087 (filed Jun. 27, 2008), each of which is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
     The present invention generally relates to medical robotic systems and in particular, to a medical robotic system providing computer generated auxiliary views of a camera instrument for controlling the positioning and orienting of its tip. 
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Medical robotic systems such as systems used in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures offer many benefits over traditional open surgery techniques, including less pain, shorter hospital stays, quicker return to normal activities, minimal scarring, reduced recovery time, and less injury to tissue. Consequently, demand for such medical robotic systems is strong and growing. 
     One example of such a medical robotic system is the da Vinci® Surgical System from Intuitive Surgical, Inc., of Sunnyvale, Calif., which is a minimally invasive robotic surgical system. The da Vinci® Surgical System has a number of robotic arms that move attached medical devices, such as an image capturing device and Intuitive Surgical&#39;s proprietary EndoWrist® articulating surgical instruments, in response to movement of input devices by a surgeon viewing images captured by the image capturing device of a surgical site. Each of the medical devices is inserted through its own minimally invasive incision into the patient and positioned to perform a medical procedure at the surgical site. The incisions are placed about the patient&#39;s body so that the surgical instruments may be used to cooperatively perform the medical procedure and the image capturing device may view it without their robotic arms colliding during the procedure. 
     To perform certain medical procedures, ...
