# Patent: CN-104717936-A

## Title
使用者启动的手术安装平台的断开式离合

## Abstract
Robotic and/or surgical devices, systems, and methods include kinematic linkage structures and associated control systems configured to facilitate preparation of the systems for use. One or more kinematic linkage subsystems may include joints that are actively driven, passive, or a mixture of both. The set-up mode utilizes an intuitive user interface in which one or more joints are initially held stationary by a brake or joint driver system. The user may articulate the joint by manually pushing the linkage with a force, torque, etc., that exceeds a manual articulation threshold. Articulation of the mobile joint is facilitated by varying the signal transmitted to the brake or driver system. The system may sense completion of reconfiguration from the joint velocity being below a threshold, optionally for a desired dwell time. The system may provide detent-like manual articulation that is not limited to mechanically predefined detent joint configurations. Embodiments of the present invention provide and may be particularly well suited for manually moving a platform supporting a plurality of surgical manipulators in a robotic surgical system or the like without having to add additional input devices.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20130815
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: CN
- **Assignee**: 直观外科手术操作公司
- **Inventors**: GRIFFITHS PAUL G., MOHR PAUL W., SWARUP NITISH
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2090/066, A61B2090/508, A61B2034/304, A61B34/30, A61B90/50, A61B34/35, Y10S901/02, A61B2034/301, A61B34/77, G05B2219/40414, A61B90/06, A61B34/37, B25J9/1669, B25J9/1633

