# Haptic feedback devices for surgical robot

**Patent Number:** 09737326
**URL:** https://ppubs.uspto.gov/pubwebapp/static/pages/ppubsbasic.html

## Content / Abstract

# Patent Grant Information

**Patent Number:** US 09737326 B2
**Publication Date:** 2017-08-22
**Application Number:** 14921430
**Filing Date:** 2015-10-23

## Haptic feedback devices for surgical robot

### Assignees
- **Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC** (Guaynabo, PR, US)

**Number of Claims:** 26

## Abstract

A surgical robot control system including a controller, a coupling system, a sensor, and a feedback device is disclosed. The coupling system is configured to couple a handheld surgical user interface to the controller. The handheld user interface may control a function of a robotic surgical system. The sensor is coupled to the controller and the coupling system and is configured to detect actuation of the handheld user interface and to communicate detected actuations to the controller. The feedback device is coupled to the controller and is configured to provide feedback associated with the robotic surgical system to a user. The controller is communicatively coupleable to the robotic surgical system and is configured to send robot control signals to the robotic surgical system, to receive feedback signals from the robotic surgical system, and to send feedback control signals to the feedback device to control the feedback provided to the user.

## Description

### Description of Drawings

#### BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
The features of the various embodiments are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The various embodiments, however, both as to organization and methods of operation, together with advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings as follows:
[Figure FIG. 1] illustrates one embodiment of a surgical system including a surgical instrument and an ultrasonic generator.
[Figure FIG. 2] illustrates one embodiment of the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 1].
[Figure FIG. 3] illustrates one embodiment of an ultrasonic end effector.
[Figure FIG. 4] illustrates another embodiment of an ultrasonic end effector.
[Figure FIG. 5] illustrates an exploded view of one embodiment of the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 1].
[Figure FIG. 6] illustrates a cut-away view of one embodiment of the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 1].
[Figure FIG. 7] illustrates various internal components of one example embodiment of the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 1]
[Figure FIG. 8] illustrates a top view of one embodiment of a surgical system including a surgical instrument and an ultrasonic generator.
[Figure FIG. 9] illustrates one embodiment of a rotation assembly included in one example embodiment of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 1].
[Figure FIG. 10] illustrates one embodiment of a surgical system including a surgical instrument having a single element end effector.
[Figure FIG. 11] is a perspective view of one embodiment of an electrical energy surgical instrument.
[Figure FIG. 12] is a side view of a handle of one embodiment of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 11] with a half of a handle body removed to illustrate some of the components therein.
[Figure FIG. 13] illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of the end effector of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 11] with the jaws open and the distal end of an axially movable member in a retracted position.
[Figure FIG. 14] illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of the end effector of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 11] with the jaws closed and the distal end of an axially movable member in a partially advanced position.
[Figure FIG. 15] illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of the axially moveable member of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 11].
[Figure FIG. 16] illustrates a section view of one embodiment of the end effector of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 11].
[Figure FIG. 17] illustrates a section a perspective view of one embodiment of a cordless electrical energy surgical instrument.
[Figure FIG. 18A] illustrates a side view of a handle of one embodiment of the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 17] with a half handle body removed to illustrate various components therein.
[Figure FIG. 18B] illustrates an RF drive and control circuit, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 18C] illustrates the main components of the controller, according to one embodiment.
[Figure FIG. 19] illustrates a block diagram of one embodiment of a robotic surgical system.
[Figure FIG. 20] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic arm cart.
[Figure FIG. 21] illustrates one embodiment of the robotic manipulator of the robotic arm cart of [Figure FIG. 20].
[Figure FIG. 22] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic arm cart having an alternative set-up joint structure.
[Figure FIG. 23] illustrates one embodiment of a controller that may be used in conjunction with a robotic arm cart, such as the robotic arm carts of [Figure FIGS. 19-22].
[Figure FIG. 24] illustrates one embodiment of an ultrasonic surgical instrument adapted for use with a robotic system.
[Figure FIG. 25] illustrates one embodiment of an electrosurgical instrument adapted for use with a robotic system.
[Figure FIG. 26] illustrates one embodiment of an instrument drive assembly that may be coupled to a surgical manipulator to receive and control the surgical instrument shown in [Figure FIG. 24].
[Figure FIG. 27] illustrates another view of the instrument drive assembly embodiment of [Figure FIG. 26] including the surgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 24].
[Figure FIG. 28] illustrates another view of the instrument drive assembly embodiment of [Figure FIG. 26] including the electrosurgical instrument of [Figure FIG. 25].
[Figure FIGS. 29-31] illustrate additional views of the adapter portion of the instrument drive assembly embodiment of [Figure FIG. 26].
[Figure FIGS. 32-34] illustrate one embodiment of the instrument mounting portion of [Figure FIGS. 24-25] showing components for translating motion of the driven elements into motion of the surgical instrument.
[Figure FIGS. 35-37] illustrate an alternate embodiment of the instrument mounting portion of [Figure FIGS. 24-25] showing an alternate example mechanism for translating rotation of the driven elements into rotational motion about the axis of the shaft and an alternate example mechanism for generating reciprocating translation of one or more members along the axis of the shaft **538**.
[Figure FIGS. 38-42] illustrate an alternate embodiment of the instrument mounting portion [Figure FIGS. 24-25] showing another alternate example mechanism for translating rotation of the driven elements into rotational motion about the axis of the shaft.
[Figure FIGS. 43-46A] illustrate an alternate embodiment of the instrument mounting portion showing an alternate example mechanism for differential translation of members along the axis of the shaft (e.g., for articulation).
[Figure FIGS. 46B-46C] illustrate one embodiment of a tool mounting portion comprising internal power and energy sources.
[Figure FIG. 47] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system in block form.
[Figure FIGS. 48-50] illustrate one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system with simplified components.
[Figure FIGS. 51-52] illustrate one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a lever and a one-degree of movement socket.
[Figure FIG. 53] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a lever and a two-degrees of movement socket.
[Figure FIG. 54] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a lever and an unrestricted two-degrees of movement socket.
[Figure FIGS. 55-56] illustrate one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a lever and a four-degrees of movement socket.
[Figure FIG. 57] illustrates one embodiment of a stand-alone input device for use with a robotic surgical control system.
[Figure FIGS. 58-60] illustrate one embodiment of a haptic feedback device utilizing a temperature gradient to provide tactile feedback.
[Figure FIG. 61] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a surgical device handle and a six-degrees of movement socket.
[Figure FIG. 62] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system comprising a surgical device handle and a three-degrees of movement socket.
[Figure FIG. 63] illustrates a robotic surgical control system comprising multiple feedback devices.
[Figure FIGS. 64-65] illustrate possible embodiments of the relationship between a surgical device handle and a surgical instrument.
[Figure FIG. 66] illustrates one embodiment of a cordless robotic surgical control system.
[Figure FIG. 67] illustrates one embodiment of a robotic surgical control system integrated with a standard robotic controller.
[Figure FIG. 68] illustrates one embodiment of a system for generating a feedback signal for a robotic surgical control system.

### CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application is a continuation application claiming priority under 35 U.S.C. 搂120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/539,096, filed Jun. 29, 2012, entitled 鈥淗APTIC FEEDBACK DEVICES FOR SURGICAL ROBOT,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,198,714, the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
This application is related to the following U.S. Patent Applications, filed Jun. 29, 2012, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety:
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/539,110, entitled 鈥淟ockout Mechanism for Use with Robotic Electrosurgical Device,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,326,788;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/539,117, entitled 鈥淐losed Feedback Control for Electrosurgical Device,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,226,767;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,588, entitled 鈥淪urgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,393,037;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,601, entitled 鈥淯ltrasonic Surgical Instruments with Distally Positioned Transducers,鈥?now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014/0005702;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,700, entitled 鈥淪urgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts,鈥?now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014/0005703;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,711, entitled 鈥淯ltrasonic Surgical Instruments with Distally Positioned Jaw Assemblies,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,351,754;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,720, entitled 鈥淪urgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts,鈥?now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014/0005705;
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/538,733, entitled 鈥淯ltrasonic Surgical Instruments with Control Mechanisms,鈥?now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014/0005681; and
- U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/539,122, entitled 鈥淪urgical Instruments with Fluid Management System,鈥?now U.S. Pat. No. 9,283,045.



### BACKGROUND
The present disclosure relates generally to the field of robotic surgery. In particular, the present disclosure relates to, although not exclusively, robotically controlled surgical instruments. More particularly, the present disclosure relates to, although not exclusively, control systems having haptic feedback for controlling robotic surgical systems.
Ultrasonic surgical devices, such as ultrasonic scalpels, are used in many applications in surgical procedures by virtue of their unique performance characteristics. Depending upon specific device configurations and operational parameters, ultrasonic surgical devices can provide substantially simultaneous transection of tissue and homeostasis by coagulation, desirably minimizing patient trauma. An ultrasonic surgical device comprises a proximally-positioned ultrasonic transducer and an instrument coupled to the ultrasonic transducer having a distally-mounted end effector comprising an ultrasonic blade to cut and seal tissue. The end effector is typically coupled either to a handle and/or a robotic surgical implement via a shaft. The blade is acoustically coupled to the transducer via a waveguide extending through the shaft. Ultrasonic surgical devices of this nature can be configured for open surgical use, laparoscopic, or endoscopic surgical procedures including robotic-assisted procedures.
Ultrasonic energy cuts and coagulates tissue using temperatures lower than those used in electrosurgical procedures. Vibrating at high frequencies (e.g., 55,500 times per second), the ultrasonic blade denatures protein in the tissue to form a sticky coagulum. Pressure exerted on tissue by the blade surface collapses blood vessels and allows the coagulum to form a haemostatic seal. A surgeon can control the cutting speed and coagulation by the force applied to the tissue by the end effector, the time over which the force is applied and the selected excursion level of the end effector.
Also used in many surgical applications are electrosurgical devices. Electrosurgical devices apply electrical energy to tissue in order to treat tissue. An electrosurgical device may comprise an instrument having a distally-mounted end effector comprising one or more electrodes. The end effector can be positioned against tissue such that electrical current is introduced into the tissue. Electrosurgical devices can be configured for bipolar or monopolar operation. During bipolar operation, current is introduced into and returned from the tissue by active and return electrodes, respectively, of the end effector. During monopolar operation, current is introduced into the tissue by an active electrode of the end effector and returned through a return electrode (e.g., a grounding pad) separately located on a patient's body. Heat generated by the current flow through the tissue may form hemostatic seals within the tissue and/or between tissues and thus may be particularly useful for sealing blood vessels, for example. The end effector of an electrosurgical device sometimes also comprises a cutting member that is movable relative to the tissue and the electrodes to transect the tissue.
Electrical energy applied by an electrosurgical device can be transmitted to the instrument by a generator. The electrical energy may be in the form of radio frequency (鈥淩F鈥? energy. RF energy is a form of electrical energy that may be in the frequency range of 300 kHz to 1 MHz. During its operation, an electrosurgical device can transmit low frequency RF energy through tissue, which causes ionic agitation, or friction, in effect resistive heating, thereby increasing the temperature of the tissue. Because a sharp boundary may be created between the affected tissue and the surrounding tissue, surgeons can operate with a high level of precision and control, without sacrificing un-targeted adjacent tissue. The low operating temperatures of RF energy may be useful for removing, shrinking, or sculpting soft tissue while simultaneously sealing blood vessels. RF energy may work particularly well on connective tissue, which is primarily comprised of collagen and shrinks when contacted by heat.
Current robotic surgical systems utilize specialized control systems designed specifically for each machine. The specialized control systems require a surgeon to train and become proficient on the specialized control system prior to use of a robotic surgical system in actual surgery. In addition to long training times, use of specialized control systems may result in a surgeon loosing proficiency with non-robotic surgical systems and techniques. Therefore, it would be desirable to have a control system for robotic surgical systems usable by the majority of surgeons with minimal training. It would also be desirable to have a control system which simulated the use of non-robotic surgical instruments.

### SUMMARY
A surgical robot control system including a controller, a coupling system, a sensor, and a feedback device is disclosed. The coupling system is configured to couple a handheld surgical user interface to the controller. The handheld surgical user interface may control a function of a robotic surgical system. The sensor is coupled to the controller and the coupling system and is configured to detect actuation of the handheld surgical user interface and to communicate detected actuations to the controller. The feedback device is coupled to the controller and is configured to provide feedback associated with the robotic surgical system to a user. The controller is communicatively coupleable to the robotic surgical system and is configured to send robot control signals, based on the detected actuations, to the robotic surgical system, to receive feedback signals from the robotic surgical system, and to send feedback control signals, based on the feedback signals, to the feedback device to control the feedback provided to the user.

### DESCRIPTION
Various example embodiments are directed to a control system for a robotic surgical system. The robotic surgical control system may comprise a housing. A controller is located within the housing and is coupled to a socket. The socket receives a handheld surgical user interface therein to control a surgical instrument. The surgical instrument is connected to the surgical robot and comprises an end effector and a mechanical interface to manipulate the end effector. The mechanical interface is coupled to the controller. At least one sensor is coupled to the controller and the socket to convert movement of the handheld surgical user interface into electrical signals corresponding to the movement of the surgical instrument. At least one feedback device is coupled to the controller to provide feedback to a user. The feedback is associated with a predetermined function of the surgical instrument.
Some example embodiments are directed towards robotic surgical control systems having a handheld surgical user interface comprising a lever. The lever may be translatably moveable in a distal/proximal direction, an up/down direction, and/or a left/right direction. The lever may also be rotatably moveable about a pivot point in any of proximal/distal, up/down, or left/right planes. In some example embodiments, the lever may comprise one or more additional inputs, such as, for example, a trigger, a switch, a resistive sleeve, or any other suitable input.
Other example embodiments are directed towards robotic surgical control systems including a handheld surgical user interface comprising a surgical device handle. The surgical device handle may be configured to simulate the feel and operation of non-robotic surgical instruments, such as, for example, non-robotic endoscopic instruments. The surgical device handle may be translatably moveable in a distal/proximal direction, an up/down direction, and/or a left/right direction. The surgical device handle may also be rotatably moveable about a pivot point in any of proximal/distal, up/down, or left/right planes. In some embodiments, the surgical device handle may include one or more additional inputs, such as, for example, a trigger, a switch, one or more rotational knobs, or any other suitable input.
In additional example embodiments, the robotic surgical control system includes one or more feedback devices. In some embodiments, the one or more feedback devices may be located in the housing. In other embodiments, the one or more feedback devices may be located in or on the handheld surgical user interface. The one or more feedback devices may provide any suitable form of sensory feedback, such as, for example, auditory feedback (sound), haptic or tactile feedback (touch), optical feedback (visual), olfactory feedback (smell), gustatory feedback (taste), and/or equilibrioception (balance feedback). Haptic feedback may be provided through various forms, for example, mechanosensation, including, but not limited to, vibrosensation (vibrations) and pressure-sensation, thermoperception (heat), and/or cryoperception (cold).
Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments, including embodiments showing example implementations of manual and robotic surgical instruments with end effectors comprising ultrasonic and/or electrosurgical elements. Wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict example embodiments of the disclosed surgical instruments and/or methods of use for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.
[Figure FIG. 1] is a right side view of one embodiment of an ultrasonic surgical instrument **10**. In the illustrated embodiment, the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10** may be employed in various surgical procedures including endoscopic or traditional open surgical procedures. In one example embodiment, the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10** comprises a handle assembly **12**, an elongated shaft assembly **14**, and an ultrasonic transducer **16**. The handle assembly **12** comprises a trigger assembly **24**, a distal rotation assembly **13**, and a switch assembly **28**. The elongated shaft assembly **14** comprises an end effector assembly **26**, which comprises elements to dissect tissue or mutually grasp, cut, and coagulate vessels and/or tissue, and actuating elements to actuate the end effector assembly **26**. The handle assembly **12** is adapted to receive the ultrasonic transducer **16** at the proximal end. The ultrasonic transducer **16** is mechanically engaged to the elongated shaft assembly **14** and portions of the end effector assembly **26**. The ultrasonic transducer **16** is electrically coupled to a generator **20** via a cable **22**. Although the majority of the drawings depict a multiple end effector assembly **26** for use in connection with laparoscopic surgical procedures, the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10** may be employed in more traditional open surgical procedures and in other embodiments, and may be configured for use in endoscopic procedures. For the purposes herein, the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10** is described in terms of an endoscopic instrument; however, it is contemplated that an open and/or laparoscopic version of the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10** also may include the same or similar operating components and features as described herein.
In various embodiments, the generator **20** comprises several functional elements, such as modules and/or blocks. Different functional elements or modules may be configured for driving different kinds of surgical devices. For example, an ultrasonic generator module **21** may drive an ultrasonic device, such as the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10**. In some example embodiments, the generator **20** also comprises an electrosurgery/RF generator module **23** for driving an electrosurgical device (or an electrosurgical embodiment of the ultrasonic surgical instrument **10**). In various embodiments, the generator **20** may be formed integrally within the handle assembly **12**. In such implementations, a battery would be co-located within the handle assembly **12** to act as the energy source. [Figure FIG. 18A] and accompanying disclosures provide one example of such implementations. As shown in [Figure FIG. 1], according to various embodiments, the ultrasonic generator module **21** and/or the electrosurgery/RF generator module **23** may be located external to the generator (shown in phantom as ultrasonic generator module **21**鈥?and electrosurgery/RF generator module **23**鈥?.
In some embodiments, the electrosurgery/RF generator module **23** may be configured to generate a therapeutic and/or a sub-therapeutic energy level. In the example embodiment illustrated in [Figure FIG. 1], the generator **20** includes a control system **25** integral with the generator **20** and a foot switch **29** connected to the generator via a cable **27**. The generator **20** may also comprise a triggering mechanism for activating a surgical instrument, such as the instrument **10**. The triggering mechanism may include a power switch (not shown) as well as a foot switch **29**. When activated by the foot switch **29**, the generator **20** may provide energy to drive the acoustic assembly of the surgical instrument **10** and to drive the end effector **18** at a predetermined excursion level. The generator **20** drives or excites the acoustic assembly at any suitable resonant frequency of the acoustic assembly and/or derives the therapeutic/sub-therapeutic electromagnetic/RF energy.
In one embodiment, the electrosurgical/RF generator module **23** may be implemented as an electrosurgery unit (ESU) capable of supplying power sufficient to perform bipolar electrosurgery using radio frequency (RF) energy. In one embodiment, th
