# Patent: US-12023117-B2

## Title
Projection of user interface pose command to reduced degree of freedom space for a surgical robot

## Abstract
For teleoperation of a surgical robotic system, the user command for the pose of the end effector is projected into a subspace reachable by the end effector. For example, a user command with six DOF is projected to a five DOF subspace. The six DOF user interface device may be used to more intuitively control, based on the projection, the end effector with the limited DOF relative to the user interface device.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20210706
- **Grant Date**: 20240702
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Verb Surgical Inc.
- **Inventors**: KLINGBEIL, Ellen, ZHOU, Renbin, YU, Haoran
- **CPC Codes**: B25J9/1689, A61B34/25, A61B34/74, A61B2034/305, A61B2034/742, A61B2017/00216, A61B2017/00203, A61B34/35, A61B34/30

## Claims
We claim: 
     
       1. A method for teleoperation of a surgical robotic system, the method comprising:
 receiving a user input to move a surgical tool coupled to a robotic arm, the user input having six degrees of freedom where the surgical tool has a lesser number of degrees of freedom; 
 projecting the user input to the lesser number of degrees of freedom, the projecting including conversion of movement from a degree of freedom not of the lesser number to another degree of freedom of the lesser number; 
 solving for joint motion of the robotic arm and surgical tool from the projected user input with inverse kinematics; and 
 moving the robotic arm and/or surgical tool based on a solution from the solving. 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1  wherein receiving comprises receiving the user input with rotation in three degrees of freedom where the surgical tool is rotatable in two degrees of freedom; and
 wherein projecting comprises projecting the user input from the rotation in the three degrees of freedom to rotation in the two degrees of freedom. 
 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1  wherein receiving comprises receiving the user input from a handheld user interface device that is ungrounded, and wherein the user input is for an end effector of the surgical tool. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1  wherein projecting comprises maintaining the translation in three degrees of freedom and reducing the rotation from three degrees of freedom to the less than three degrees of freedom. 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1  wherein receiving comprises receiving a first pose or first change in pose as the user input, and wherein projecting comprises converting the pose or change in pose to a second pose or second change in pose for which the surgical tool is capable. 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1  wherein receiving and projecting occur in a command space for an end effector of the surgical tool prior to solving, and wherein solving comprises converting from the command space for the end effector to a joint space for joints of the surgical tool and robotic arm. 
     
     
       7. A method for teleoperation of a surgical robotic system, the method comprising:
 receiving a user input to move a surgical tool coupled to a robotic arm, the user input having six degrees of freedom where the surgical tool has a lesser number of degrees of freedom; 
 projecting the user input to the lesser number of degrees of freedom; 
 solving for joint motion of the robotic arm and surgical tool from the projected user input with inverse kinematics; and 
 moving the robotic arm and/or surgical tool based on a solution from the solving; 
 wherein projecting comprises projecting the user input for the rotation about first, second, and third axes as the three axes to rotation about just the first and second axes as the lesser number by a subtraction of a multiplication of (1) a dot product of a rotation about the third axis with a change in rotation of the end effector of the user input by (2) the rotation about the third axis. 
 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 7  wherein the user input is in a rotation matrix representation, and wherein projecting comprises converting the rotation matrix representation to an axis-angle representation, projecting in the axis-angle representation, and converting a result of the projecting back to the rotation matrix representation. 
     
     
       9. A method for teleoperation of a surgical robotic system, the method comprising:
 receiving a user input to move a surgical tool coupled to a robotic arm, the user input having six degrees of freedom where the surgical tool has a lesser number of degrees of freedom; 
 projecting the user input to the lesser number of degrees of freedom; 
 solving for joint motion of the robotic arm and surgical tool from the projected user input with inverse kinematics; and 
 moving the robotic arm and/or surgical tool based on a solution from the solving; 
 wherein projecting comprises projecting a change in rotation due to coupling between the translation and the rotation. 
 
     
     
       10. The method of  claim 9  wherein projecting the change in the rotation due to the coupling comprises projecting with a similarity transform accounting for a remote-center-of-motion of the robotic arm. 
     
     
       11. The method of  claim 9  wherein the projected user input is a function of the change in rotation due to the coupling and the projection to the lesser number of degrees of freedom. 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 11  wherein the function is a multiplication of the change in rotation due to the coupling, the projection to the lesser number, and the rotation about the three axes. 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 1  wherein solving comprises solving as a minimization of a least square. 
     
     
       14. A method for accounting for a limited degree of freedom of a tool in a surgical robotic system, the method comprising:
 projecting a first pose from an ungrounded user interface with six degrees of freedom to a second pose of an end effector of a surgical tool held by a robotic arm where the second pose has only four or five degrees of freedom, wherein projecting comprises projecting with an axis-angle representation by a subtraction of a multiplication of (1) a dot product of a rotation about or translation on a first axis with a change in rotation or translation of the end effector by (2) the rotation about or translation on the first axis; and 
 controlling the end effector based on the second pose. 
 
     
     
       15. A method for accounting for a limited degree of freedom of a tool in a surgical robotic system, the method comprising:
 projecting a first pose from an ungrounded user interface with six degrees of freedom to a second pose of an end effector of a surgical tool held by a robotic arm where the second pose has only four or five degrees of freedom, wherein projecting comprises projecting with a change in rotation or translation due to a coupling between the rotation and translation about a first axis; and 
 controlling the end effector based on the second pose. 
 
     
     
       16. The method of  claim 14  further comprising receiving a user input command from a user interface, the first pose being of the end effector provided as the user input command. 
     
     
       17. The method of  claim 14  wherein the second pose has only five degrees of freedom, a missing degree of freedom of the five degrees as compared to the six degrees being rotation about a first axis, and wherein projecting comprises maintaining three degrees of freedom in translation and projecting the rotation about the axis to rotation about second and third axes. 
     
     
       18. A surgical robotic system comprising:
 a robotic arm; 
 a surgical instrument mountable to the robotic arm having an end effector where rotation about one axis is coupled to rotation about another axis; 
 a user interface device having three degrees of freedom in rotation; and 
 a controller configured to project a user command from the user interface device for rotation about the one axis to rotations about the one axis and the other axis. 
 
     
     
       19. The surgical robotic system of  claim 18  wherein the controller is configured to project the user command to a first change in rotation and to project the user command to a second change in rotation due to the coupling, the coupling being between linear motion and rotation, a projected user command being a function of the first and second changes, and the controller being configured to solve for joint motion of the robotic arm and the surgical instrument with inverse kinematics from the projected user command.

## Description Snippet
BACKGROUND 
     The present embodiments relate to robotic systems for minimally-invasive surgery (MIS). MIS may be performed with robotic systems that include one or more robotic arms for manipulating surgical tools based on commands from a remote operator. A robotic arm may, for example, support at its distal end various surgical end effectors, including staplers, scalpels, imaging devices (e.g., endoscope), clamps, and scissors. Using the robotic system, the surgeon controls the robotic arms and end effectors in teleoperation during MIS. 
     Different end effectors, in combination with the robotic arms, have different numbers of degrees of freedom (DOF). For example, a stapler has five DOF in teleoperation. Five active joints, and corresponding DOF, includes two joints on the instrument (e.g., rotation and articulate to control yaw) and three joints on the robotic arm (e.g., spherical rotate, spherical pitch, and tool translate). The end effector is positioned and oriented with only five DOF. In yet another example, an endoscope or ultrasound scalpel has four DOF in teleoperation. Four active joints, and corresponding DOF, include one joint on the instrument (e.g., rotation) and three joints on the robotic arm (e.g., spherical rotate, spherical pitch, and tool translate). 
     During teleoperation, the user inputs using a user input device with a greater number of DOF, such as six DOF. These user pose commands in Cartesian space are translated into joints motions, such that the instrument follows the user commands or inputs with controlled accuracy. Tools having fewer DOFs than the input do not track the more arbitrary spatial commands (position and orientation) from the user input. This can lead to undesirable or un-intuitive behavior in the joint commands where the commanded motion is in a direction that is not feasible for the robot. Where the user input is ungrounded (e.g., 6 DOF), the motion of the user input device cannot be restricted by mechanical fixt...
