# Patent: US-12349903-B2

## Title
End tool of surgical instrument, and surgical instrument comprising same

## Abstract
The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20220422
- **Grant Date**: 20250708
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Livsmed Inc.
- **Inventors**: LEE, Jaeyeong, KIM, JUNGHWAN, LEE, JUNG JOO, KIM, HEEJIN, JANG, Dongkyu
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2017/00367, A61B34/30, A61B2017/2932, A61B2017/00407, A61B2017/2939, A61B2017/07278, A61B2017/07271, A61B34/71, A61B2017/291, A61B2017/2936, A61B2017/2937, A61B2017/2927, A61B17/07207

## Claims
The invention claimed is: 
     
       1. A method of driving a surgical instrument, the method comprising operations:
 (a) in which, when a staple pulley of a staple drive assembly is rotated in a first direction around a first shaft, a staple link assembly connected to the staple pulley and a reciprocating assembly of a cartridge connected to the staple link assembly are moved along a second shaft toward a distal end of the cartridge; 
 (b) in which, when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, an operation member in contact with the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge together with the reciprocating assembly; 
 (c) in which, as the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, the operation member ejects staples in the cartridge to outside of the cartridge, and simultaneously, a blade of the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge; and 
 (d) in which, when the staple pulley is rotated in a second direction opposite to the first direction around the first shaft, the staple link assembly, which is connected to the staple pulley, and the reciprocating assembly of the cartridge, which is connected to the staple link assembly, are moved toward a proximal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 , wherein a bidirectional rotational motion of the staple pulley around the first shaft is converted into a reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly, which is connected to the staple pulley, with respect to the second shaft. 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 2 , wherein the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge by the reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein
 a rack is formed on one surface of the reciprocating assembly, 
 the operation member includes a ratchet member having a ratchet formed thereon, and 
 as the rack pushes the ratchet member while being in close contact with the ratchet member, the ratchet member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 1 , wherein
 in operation (d), 
 the operation member remains stationary with respect to a direction of the second shaft. 
 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge together with the reciprocating assembly only when the reciprocating assembly is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein
 the staple drive assembly includes a first link member connected to one region of the staple pulley, and a second link member connected to an other region of the staple pulley, 
 the reciprocating assembly includes a first reciprocating member coupled to the first link member and a second reciprocating member coupled to the second link member, and 
 the operation member includes a ratchet member on which a first ratchet and a second ratchet are formed. 
 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein
 in operation (a), the first ratchet and the first reciprocating member are in contact with each other, and 
 in operation (b), the second ratchet and the second reciprocating member are in contact with each other. 
 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 8 , wherein
 in operation (a), 
 the first link member connected to the staple pulley, the first reciprocating member connected to the first link member, and the operation member in contact with the first reciprocating member are moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, and 
 the second link member connected to the staple pulley and the second reciprocating member connected to the second link member are moved toward the proximal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       10. The method of  claim 8 , wherein
 in operation (d), 
 the first link member connected to the staple pulley and the first reciprocating member connected to the first link member are moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, and 
 the second link member connected to the staple pulley, the second reciprocating member connected to the second link member, and the operation member in contact with the second reciprocating member are moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       11. The method of  claim 7 , wherein
 in operation (d), 
 the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge. 
 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising a staple wire coupled to the staple pulley to rotate the staple pulley,
 wherein a bidirectional rotation of the staple pulley is converted into a reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly by the staple wire. 
 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 1 , wherein
 as the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge, 
 a wedge of the operation member sequentially pushes and raises a plurality of staples in the cartridge to perform a stapling motion, and simultaneously 
 a blade formed on one side of the wedge of the operation member is moved toward the distal end of the cartridge to perform a cutting motion. 
 
     
     
       14. The method of  claim 1 , wherein operations (a) to (d) are repeatedly performed.

## Description Snippet
TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same. 
     BACKGROUND ART 
     In recent years, laparoscopic surgery has been actively utilized to reduce postoperative recovery time and complications through small incisions. The laparoscopic surgery is a surgical method in which a plurality of small holes are drilled in the abdomen of a patient and the inside of the abdominal cavity is observed through these holes, and is widely used in general surgery and the like. 
     In performing the laparoscopic surgery, a suturing instrument inserted into the body is used to suture a surgical site in the abdominal cavity, and a surgical stapler for suturing the surgical site using medical staples is used as the suturing instrument. 
     In general, a surgical stapler is a medical instrument that is often used for cutting and anastomosis of an organ in abdominal and thoracic surgery. The surgical stapler includes an open stapler used in thoracotomy and laparotomy and an endo stapler used in thoracoscopic surgery and celioscopic surgery. 
     The surgical stapler has advantages of not only shortening operation time since cutting of a surgical site and anastomosis of an organ are simultaneously performed, but also accurately stapling the surgical site. In addition, the surgical stapler has advantages of a faster recovery and a smaller scar than those when tissue is cut and stapled using a surgical stapling thread, and thus has been widely used in modern surgical operations. In particular, the surgical stapler has been widely us...
