# Patent: US-12114939-B2

## Title
Apparatus, systems, and methods for precise guidance of surgical tools

## Abstract
Described herein are systems, apparatus, and methods for precise placement and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgical procedure. The system features a portable robot arm with end effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool. The system requires only minimal training by surgeons/operators, is intuitive to use, and has a small footprint with significantly reduced obstruction of the operating table. The system works with existing, standard surgical tools, does not required increased surgical time or preparatory time, and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20211014
- **Grant Date**: 20241015
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: KB Medical SA
- **Inventors**: KOSTRZEWSKI, Szymon, CHAPPUIS, OLIVIER, NUSSBAUMER, Billy, GEHRIGER, DANIEL, BERTHELIN, Roderik
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2034/105, A61B2034/102, A61B34/37, A61B34/76, A61B2090/064, A61B17/1615, A61B2090/3762, A61B90/37, A61B2034/107, A61B34/10, A61B2090/376, A61B34/20, A61B2034/2055, A61B2090/066, A61B90/06, A61B34/70, A61B90/11, A61B34/30

## Claims
What is claimed is: 
     
       1. A method for performing a surgical procedure using a robotic surgical system, said method comprising:
 obtaining an image of at least a portion of a spine of a patient undergoing the surgical procedure; 
 moving the robotic surgical system in proximity to an operating area, wherein the robotic surgical system comprises:
 a computing system; 
 a robot arm; 
 a mobile cart configured to support the robot arm; 
 an end-effector attached to the robot arm, wherein the end-effector is configured to releasably hold one of a plurality of instruments; 
 a control interface configured to receive commands and to control operation of the robot arm, wherein the control interface is in electronic communication with the computing system; 
 an actuator, in electronic communication with the control interface, configured to move the robot arm; and 
 a tracking detector configured to capture a position of the one of the plurality of surgical instruments in relation to the patient; 
 wherein the computing system is configured to perform a registration to spatially align the end-effector, the patient, and a desired trajectory of the end-effector, and to maintain the spatial alignment without performing re-registration of the end-effector position when the one of the plurality of surgical instruments held by the end-effector is removed and replaced with a different one of the plurality of surgical instruments 
 drilling a hole into a vertebral body though one of the plurality of surgical instruments, 
 positioning a surgical screw into the vertebral body through one of the plurality of surgical instruments, wherein the one of the plurality of surgical instruments moderates the screwing motion at a predetermined pace. 
 
 
     
     
       2. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising displaying the virtual representation and the position of the surgical instrument. 
     
     
       3. The method of  claim 1 , further comprising displaying a projected trajectory of the robot arm based on a position of the robot arm in relation to the patient. 
     
     
       4. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the tracking detector is a camera. 
     
     
       5. The method of  claim 3 , wherein tracking detector is an infrared camera. 
     
     
       6. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises at least one force sensor disposed between the end-effector and the robot arm. 
     
     
       7. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the robot arm is housed on the mobile cart. 
     
     
       8. The method of  claim 7 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises a stabilization mechanism configured to increase stiffness of the mobile cart to ensure accuracy of the medical procedure. 
     
     
       9. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the robot arm includes a locking mechanism. 
     
     
       10. The method of  claim 1 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises a surgical drape positioned between the robot arm and the end-effector. 
     
     
       11. A method for performing a surgical procedure using a robotic surgical system, said method comprising:
 generating a virtual representation of a target anatomy of a patient, wherein the target anatomy is associated with the surgical procedure; 
 moving the robotic surgical system in proximity to an operating area, wherein the robotic surgical system comprises:
 a computing system; 
 a robot arm; 
 a mobile cart configured to support the robot arm; 
 an end-effector attached to the robot arm, wherein the end-effector is configured to releasably hold one of a plurality of instruments; 
 a control interface configured to receive commands and to control operation of the robot arm, wherein the control interface is in electronic communication with the computing system; 
 an actuator, in electronic communication with the control interface, configured to move the robot arm; and 
 a tracking detector configured to capture a position of the one of the plurality of surgical instruments in relation to the patient; 
 wherein the computing system is configured to perform a registration to spatially align the end-effector, the patient, and a desired trajectory of the end-effector, and to maintain the spatial alignment without performing re-registration of the end-effector position when the one of the plurality of surgical instruments held by the end-effector is removed and replaced with a different one of the plurality of surgical instruments, 
 
 stabilizing the mobile cart to ensure precise movements are performed by the robot arm; 
 placing the robot arm into a force control mode to align the robot arm to the desired trajectory in relation to the patient; 
 manipulating the surgical instrument according the determined trajectory to perform the surgical procedure 
 drilling a hole into a vertebral body though the surgical instrument, 
 positioning a surgical screw into the vertebral body through one of the surgical instrument, wherein the surgical instrument moderates the screwing motion at a predetermined pace. 
 
     
     
       12. The method of  claim 11 , further comprising displaying the virtual representation and the position of the surgical instrument. 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 11 , further comprising displaying a projected trajectory of the robot arm based on a position of the robot arm in relation to the patient. 
     
     
       14. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the tracking detector is a camera. 
     
     
       15. The method of  claim 13 , wherein tracking detector is an infrared camera. 
     
     
       16. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises at least one force sensor disposed between the end-effector and the robot arm. 
     
     
       17. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the robot arm is housed on the mobile cart. 
     
     
       18. The method of  claim 17 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises a stabilization mechanism configured to increase stiffness of the mobile cart to ensure accuracy of the medical procedure. 
     
     
       19. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the robot arm includes a locking mechanism. 
     
     
       20. The method of  claim 11 , wherein the robotic surgical system further comprises a surgical drape positioned between the robot arm and the end-effector.

## Description Snippet
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/947,674, filed on Nov. 20, 2015 and titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2016-0081754), which is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/266,769, filed Apr. 30, 2014, titled “Apparatus and Systems for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” (now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9,283,048), which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/887,273, titled “Apparatus, Systems, and Methods for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” and filed Oct. 4, 2013, the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Robotic-assisted surgical systems have been developed to improve surgical precision and enable the implementation of new surgical procedures. For example, robotic systems have been developed to sense a surgeon&#39;s hand movements and translate them to scaled-down micro-movements and filter out unintentional tremors for precise microsurgical techniques in organ transplants, reconstructions, and minimally invasive surgeries. Other robotic systems are directed to telemanipulation of surgical tools such that the surgeon does not have to be present in the operating room, thereby facilitating remote surgery. Feedback-controlled robotic systems have also been developed to provide smoother manipulation of a surgical tool during a procedure than could be achieved by an unaided surgeon. 
     However, widespread acceptance of robotic systems by surgeons and hospitals is limited for a variety of reasons. Current systems are expensive to own and maintain. They often require extensive preoperative surgical planning prior to use, and they extend the required preparation time in the operating room. They are physically intrusive, possibly obscuring portions of a surgeon&#39;s field of vi...
