# Patent: US-2015100066-A1

## Title
Apparatus, systems, and methods for precise guidance of surgical tools

## Abstract
Described herein are systems, apparatus, and methods for precise placement and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgical procedure. The system features a portable robot arm with end effector for precise positioning of a surgical tool. The system requires only minimal training by surgeons/operators, is intuitive to use, and has a small footprint with significantly reduced obstruction of the operating table. The system works with existing, standard surgical tools, does not require increased surgical time or preparatory time, and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20140430
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: KB Medical SA
- **Inventors**: KOSTRZEWSKI SZYMON, CHAPPUIS OLIVIER, NUSSBAUMER BILLY, GEHRIGER DANIEL, BERTHELIN RODERIK
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/37, A61B2034/102, A61B2034/105, A61B2090/064, A61B34/76, A61B17/1615, A61B19/2203, A61B2019/2223, A61B90/11, A61B34/20, A61B2090/3762, A61B90/06, A61B34/30, A61B2034/107, A61B2090/066, A61B34/70, A61B34/10, A61B90/37, A61B2090/376, A61B2034/2055

## Claims
1 . A robotic surgical system for performing surgery, wherein the robotic surgical system permits a surgeon to manually move the end-effector to a position for an operation, the system comprising:
 a robotic arm comprising a force and/or torque control end-effector sized and shaped to hold a first surgical tool;   a handle extending from the end effector, the handle comprising a structure sized and shaped for grasping by a hand of a user to move the end effector, wherein the robotic surgical system allows both robotically-assisted and unassisted positioning of the end-effector by the user via the handle with at least four degrees of freedom;   an actuator for controlled movement of the robotic arm and/or positioning of the end-effector;   a tracking detector for real time detection of (i) a position of the first surgical tool held by the robotic arm and (ii) patient position; and   a processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to:
 operate the robotic surgical system in a force control mode, comprising:
 detecting, by the processor, a force applied by a user to the handle, 
 determining, by the processor, whether the force exceeds a predetermined minimum force and/or torque required for movement of the end-effector, and 
 controlling, by the processor, movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user, thereby providing haptic feedback to the user via the handle; and 
 
 provide visual feedback to the user, comprising:
 accessing or generating, by the processor, a virtual representation of a patient situation; 
 obtaining, by the processor, a real-time (i) position of the first surgical tool held by the robotic arm and/or end-effector position and (ii) patient position from the tracking detector; 
 determining, by the processor, a projected trajectory based on the (a) position of the first surgical tool held by the robotic arm and (b) patient position from the tracking detector; and 
 displaying, by the processor, a real-time representation of the projected trajectory, the first surgical tool position in relation to the real-time patient position, wherein the determination of the projected trajectory and the rendering and display of the projected trajectory are automatically updated as the position of the end-effector is changed, thereby providing visual feedback to the user to assist the user in positioning the end-effector at a desired position. 
 
   
     
     
         2 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the desired position is at least one of (i) identified by a surgeon without preoperative planning, (ii) planned with assistance of the robotic surgical system, and (iii) proposed by the robotic surgical system for approval by the surgeon. 
     
     
         3 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the instructions further cause the processor to:
 upon entry of a user command, control the actuator to translate the end-effector an identified distance in an identified direction and/or to adjust angle of rotation of the end-effector.   
     
     
         4 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the surgery is spinal surgery. 
     
     
         5 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the end-effector is sized and shaped to releasably hold the first surgical tool, allowing the first surgical tool to be removed and replaced with a second surgical tool. 
     
     
         6 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the handle allows movement of the end-effector by a user with at least six degrees of freedom, wherein the six degrees of freedom are three degrees of translations and three degrees of rotations. 
     
     
         7 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the patient position is a position of one or more markers placed in spatial relation to one or more vertebrae. 
     
     
         8 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein controlling movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user comprises controlling the actuator to move the end-effector in a direction corresponding to a direction of application of the force and/or torque. 
     
     
         9 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein controlling movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user comprises moving the end effector at a predetermined measured pace, wherein the predetermined measured pace is a steady, slow velocity. 
     
     
         10 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the first surgical tool is a drill bit tube sized and shaped to receive a drill bit therethrough. 
     
     
         11 - 20 . (canceled) 
     
     
         21 . The system of  claim 5 , wherein the robotic surgical system maintains a current position when the first surgical tool is removed and replaced with the second surgical tool. 
     
     
         22 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the desired position is planned during the operation. 
     
     
         23 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the minimum threshold is greater than or equal to zero. 
     
     
         24 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein controlling movement of the end effector in response to the force applied to the handle by the user comprises maintaining a current position of the end effector. 
     
     
         25 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the end effector comprises a tool guide attached to the robotic arm and sized and shaped to slidably receive and/or hold the first surgical tool. 
     
     
         26 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a force sensor coupled to the tool guide for measuring a force and/or torque applied to first the surgical tool.   
     
     
         27 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a first tracking marker attached to the first surgical tool, thereby allowing tracking of the position of the first surgical tool by the tracking detector; and   a second tracking marker placed in a known spatial relation to one or more vertebrae, thereby allowing tracking of the one or more vertebrae by the tracking detector.   
     
     
         28 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a mobile cart comprising one or more retractable wheels and one or more rigid legs on which the mobile cart rests when the one or more retractable wheels are retracted.   
     
     
         29 . The system of  claim 1 , comprising:
 a mobile cart comprising one or more retractable rigid legs and one or more wheels on which the mobile cart rests when the one or more retractable rigid legs are retracted.   
     
     
         30 . The system of  claim 1 , wherein the handle comprises one or more buttons.

## Description Snippet
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/887,273, entitled “Apparatus, Systems, and Methods for Precise Guidance of Surgical Tools” and filed Oct. 4, 2013, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     Robotic-assisted surgical systems have been developed to improve surgical precision and enable the implementation of new surgical procedures. For example, robotic systems have been developed to sense a surgeon&#39;s hand movements and translate them to scaled-down micro-movements and filter out unintentional tremors for precise microsurgical techniques in organ transplants, reconstructions, and minimally invasive surgeries. Other robotic systems are directed to telemanipulation of surgical tools such that the surgeon does not have to be present in the operating room, thereby facilitating remote surgery. Feedback-controlled robotic systems have also been developed to provide smoother manipulation of a surgical tool during a procedure than could be achieved by an unaided surgeon. 
     However, widespread acceptance of robotic systems by surgeons and hospitals is limited for a variety of reasons. Current systems are expensive to own and maintain. They often require extensive preoperative surgical planning prior to use, and they extend the required preparation time in the operating room. They are physically intrusive, possibly obscuring portions of a surgeons field of view and blocking certain areas around the operating table, such that a surgeon and/or surgical assistants are relegated to one side of the operating table. Current systems may also be non-intuitive or otherwise cumbersome to use, particularly for surgeons who have developed a special skill or “feel” for performing certain maneuvers during surgery and who find that such skill cannot be implemented using the robotic system. Finally, robotic surgical systems may be vulnerable to malfunction or operator error, ...
