# Patent: US-2025275768-A1

## Title
End tool of surgical instrument, and surgical instrument comprising same

## Abstract
The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20250516
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Livsmed Inc.
- **Inventors**: LEE, Jaeyeong, KIM, JUNGHWAN, LEE, JUNG JOO, KIM, HEEJIN, JANG, Dongkyu
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2017/00367, A61B34/30, A61B2017/2932, A61B2017/00407, A61B2017/2939, A61B2017/07278, A61B2017/07271, A61B34/71, A61B2017/291, A61B2017/2936, A61B2017/2937, A61B2017/2927, A61B17/07207

## Claims
1 . An end tool of a surgical instrument, the end tool comprising:
 a first jaw capable of accommodating a cartridge;   a second jaw formed to face the first jaw;   a first jaw pulley coupled to the first jaw and formed to be rotatable around a first shaft;   a second jaw pulley coupled to the second jaw, formed to be rotatable around a shaft substantially the same as or parallel to the first shaft, and formed to be spaced apart from the first jaw pulley by a certain extent;   a staple drive assembly including one or more staple pulleys at least partially formed between the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley; and   a staple wire at least partially in contact with the staple pulley and configured to transmit, to the staple pulley, a driving force necessary for rotating the staple pulley,   wherein the staple drive assembly is connected to a reciprocating assembly of the cartridge and configured to convert a rotational motion of the staple pulley into a linear motion of the reciprocating assembly.   
     
     
         2 . The end tool of  claim 1 , further comprising an end tool hub including a first jaw pulley coupling part and a second jaw pulley coupling part, which are formed to face each other, and a guide part configured to connect the first jaw pulley coupling part and the second jaw pulley coupling part,
 wherein the first jaw pulley is disposed adjacent to the first jaw pulley coupling part of the end tool hub,   the second jaw pulley is disposed adjacent to the second jaw pulley coupling part of the end tool hub, and   at least a portion of the staple drive assembly is formed between the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley.   
     
     
         3 . The end tool of  claim 2 , wherein the first shaft is sequentially inserted through the first jaw pulley coupling part, the first jaw pulley, the staple pulley, the second jaw pulley, and the second jaw pulley coupling part. 
     
     
         4 . The end tool of  claim 2 , wherein the first jaw pulley, the staple pulley, and the second jaw pulley are sequentially stacked in the end tool hub. 
     
     
         5 . The end tool of  claim 2 , wherein the first jaw pulley, the staple pulley, and the second jaw pulley are formed to be rotatable independently of each other. 
     
     
         6 . The end tool of  claim 2 , further comprising a staple auxiliary pulley disposed between the staple pulley and the guide part. 
     
     
         7 . The end tool of  claim 6 , wherein
 the staple wire is located on a common internal tangent of the staple pulley and the staple auxiliary pulley, and   a rotation angle of the staple pulley is increased by the staple auxiliary pulley.   
     
     
         8 . The end tool of  claim 2 , wherein a region of the guide part adjacent to the first jaw pulley, the staple pulley, and the second jaw pulley is formed such that a cross section thereof is curved with a predetermined curvature. 
     
     
         9 . The end tool of  claim 8 , wherein
 the staple wire is located on a common internal tangent of the staple pulley and the guide part, and   a rotation angle of the staple pulley is increased by the guide part.   
     
     
         10 . The end tool of  claim 1 , wherein the staple drive assembly includes a staple link assembly configured to connect the staple pulley and the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
         11 . The end tool of  claim 10 , wherein the staple link assembly includes a first link coupled to the staple pulley, and a second link coupled to each of the first link and the reciprocating assembly. 
     
     
         12 . The end tool of  claim 10 , wherein
 when the staple pulley is alternately rotated in a clockwise direction and a counterclockwise direction,   the staple link assembly connected to the staple pulley is alternately moved toward a distal end and a proximal end of the end tool.   
     
     
         13 . The end tool of  claim 10 , wherein a bidirectional rotational motion of the staple pulley is converted into a reciprocating linear motion of the reciprocating assembly, which is connected to the staple link assembly, by the staple link assembly. 
     
     
         14 . The end tool of  claim 10 , wherein
 a guide groove is formed in the first jaw in a length direction of the first jaw, and   the staple link assembly is moved along the guide groove.   
     
     
         15 . The end tool of  claim 1 , further comprising a jaw rotation shaft inserted through the first jaw and the second jaw and being the center of rotation of the first jaw and the second jaw,
 wherein the first shaft is a jaw pulley rotation shaft, which is inserted through the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley and being the center of rotation of the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley, and   the jaw rotation shaft is moved relative to the jaw pulley rotation shaft when the first jaw pulley and the second jaw pulley are rotated around the jaw pulley rotation shaft.   
     
     
         16 . The end tool of  claim 15 , wherein
 when the first jaw and the second jaw are closed, the jaw rotation shaft is moved toward a distal end of the end tool, and   when the first jaw and the second jaw are opened, the jaw rotation shaft is moved toward a proximal end of the end tool.   
     
     
         17 . The end tool of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 a pair of end tool first jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the first jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a second shaft forming a predetermined angle with the first shaft; and   a pair of end tool second jaw pitch main pulleys formed on one side of the second jaw pulley, and formed to be rotatable around a shaft that is substantially the same as or parallel to the second shaft.   
     
     
         18 . The end tool of  claim 17 , wherein the end tool is formed to be yaw-rotatable around the first shaft and simultaneously pitch-rotatable around the second shaft. 
     
     
         19 . The end tool of  claim 17 , further comprising:
 a first jaw wire of which at least a portion is wound around the first jaw pulley and the pair of end tool first jaw pitch main pulleys; and   a second jaw wire of which at least a portion is wound around the second jaw pulley and the pair of end tool second jaw pitch main pulleys.

## Description Snippet
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation application of the U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 18/288,002 filed on Oct. 23, 2023, which is a U.S. national-stage application of PCT/KR2022/005795 filed on Apr. 22, 2022, and claims priority to Korean patent application Nos. 10-2021-0053353 filed on Apr. 23, 2021, and 10-2021-0055322 filed on Apr. 28, 2021, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The present disclosure relates to an end tool of a surgical instrument and a surgical instrument including the same, and more particularly, to an end tool of a surgical instrument that may be mounted on a robotic arm or operable manually to be used in laparoscopic surgery or other various surgeries, wherein the end tool is rotatable in two or more directions and is moved in a way that intuitively matches a motion of a manipulation part, and a surgical instrument including the same. 
     BACKGROUND ART 
     In recent years, laparoscopic surgery has been actively utilized to reduce postoperative recovery time and complications through small incisions. The laparoscopic surgery is a surgical method in which a plurality of small holes are drilled in the abdomen of a patient and the inside of the abdominal cavity is observed through these holes, and is widely used in general surgery and the like. 
     In performing the laparoscopic surgery, a suturing instrument inserted into the body is used to suture a surgical site in the abdominal cavity, and a surgical stapler for suturing the surgical site using medical staples is used as the suturing instrument. 
     In general, a surgical stapler is a medical instrument that is often used for cutting and anastomosis of an organ in abdominal and thoracic surgery. The surgical stapler includes an open stapler used in thoracotomy and laparotomy and an endo stapler used in thoracoscopic surgery and celioscopic surgery. 
     The s...
