# Patent: US-2022031354-A1

## Title
Robotic Double Cannulation Cannula

## Abstract
The Robotic Double Cannulation Cannula is a laparoscopic cannula that will be docked to the Si, X or Xi da Vinci Surgical Systems® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.) and then placed through an EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.). This provides ease of insertion and extraction of surgical materials, such as suture and mesh, along with specimen extraction, without having to undock the robotic arm. Once inserted, the Robotic Double Cannulation Cannula remote center of movement will match the remote center of movement of the EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.) to prevent injury to the abdominal wall musculature. An electrical contact on the intern tip of the Robotic Double Cannulation Cannula will provide electrical grounding to the outer cannula to prevent electrical injury.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20200801
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Clark Gerhart
- **Inventors**: Gerhart, Clark
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/30, A61B2017/3425, A61B17/3421, A61B17/3417, A61B17/3423, A61B2017/3419, A61B2034/302

## Claims
1 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery comprising;
 a tubular cannula; and   an external seal; and   an external fin; and   an internal metal rim.   
     
     
         2 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery as in  claim 1 , wherein said tubular cannula is of appropriate width to fit through the seal and within the lumen of the EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.). 
     
     
         3 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery as in  claim 1 , wherein said tubular cannula is of appropriate length so that the remote center of movement will coincide with the remote center of movement on the EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.). 
     
     
         4 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery as in  claim 1 , wherein said external seal covers the external opening of said tubular cannula and allows passage of robotic laparoscopic instruments into the abdomen, and prevents leakage of gas or fluids from the abdomen. 
     
     
         5 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery as in  claim 1 , wherein said fin is attached to said external seal, and said fin has appropriate specifications to allow it to be connected to the X and Xi da Vinci Surgical Systems® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.) cannula mount. 
     
     
         6 . An abdominal access device for robotic laparoscopic surgery as in  claim 1 , wherein said metal rim on the internal end of said tubular cannula is in contact with the internal surface of said EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.).

## Description Snippet
BACKGROUND 
     Field of the Invention 
     
         
         
           
             A robotic surgery cannula that is able to be attached to the robotic arm of the da Vinci X and XI Bedside Robotic Cart® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.) and inserted through (double cannulated in) an EndoWrist 12 mm &amp; Stapler Cannula® (Intuitive, Sunnyvale Calif.); while also sealing around the robotic instruments and providing electrical grounding of the robotic instruments. The new cannula will enable active use of robotic instruments both inside and outside of the patient, allow ease of inserting and withdrawing the robotic instruments for inserting or withdrawing surgical devices, such as suture, mesh and rulers, and withdrawing specimens. 
           
         
       
    
     Description of the Related Art 
     
         
         
           
             Laparoscopic surgery has been developed in the last 30 years that allows surgeons to operate on internal organs by placing surgical instruments through the abdominal wall via laparoscopic cannulas, typically made of plastic, that are placed through small punctures rather than using large traditional incisions. The abdomen is inflated with carbon dioxide to provide room to work. The cannulas hold the punctures open for surgical instruments to be inserted, while also sealing them to prevent carbon dioxide gas from escaping. 
             Robotic laparoscopy also uses cannulas to hold open small punctures, through which the new robotic surgical instruments can be placed into the abdomen. These ae typically made of metal and also seal the openings to prevent carbon dioxide from escaping. The robotic arms that control the instruments attach to these metal cannulas. Once attached to the robotic arm the cannulas become inaccessible to bedside assistants for use in the operation, so additional plastic, non-robotic laparoscopic cannulas are placed for assistants to access the abdominal cavity. 
             To prevent addi...
