# Patent: US-2021068907-A1

## Title
Handheld User Interface Device for a Surgical Robot

## Abstract
Disclosed herein is a mobile interface device to control a robotically-assisted surgical system. The mobile interface device provides a surgeon with a direct view of the surgical robotic system and allows a surgeon to easily and intuitively select, control, or manipulate various target components of the surgical robotic system. The mobile interface device may capture a live image of the surgical robotic system to automatically identify a robotic arm that appears in the center of the captured live image as the target component selected by the surgeon. Based on the current pose or position of the target component, the mobile interface device may generate a list of target poses and control options. The surgeon may select a control option to select a target pose and to manipulate the target component to command a robotically-assisted movement of the selected robotic arm from the current pose to the target pose.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20190910
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Verb Surgical Inc.
- **Inventors**: FUERST, Bernhard Adolf, GARCIA KILROY, Pablo E.
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2090/365, A61B2034/252, A61B2034/107, A61B90/361, A61B34/35, A61B34/25, A61B34/74, A61B34/32, A61B2034/2065, A61B2090/372, A61B2034/2048, A61B2090/371, A61B2034/305, A61B17/00234, A61B2017/00477, A61B90/50

## Claims
1 . A mobile interface device for a surgical robotic system, comprising:
 a camera configured to capture a live image of a portion of the surgical robotic system;   a processor configured to:
 process the captured live image to identify a target component of the surgical robotic system to be controlled using the mobile interface device; and 
 determine a current pose of the target component; 
   a display configured to:
 display the captured live image; and 
 display one or more target poses of the target component; and 
   one or more control interfaces configured to:
 allow a user to select one of the target poses; and 
 generate an input command to drive the target component from the current pose to the selected target pose. 
   
     
     
         2 . The mobile interface of  claim 1 , wherein the display is further configured to present information to visually indicate the one or more target poses of the target component to the user. 
     
     
         3 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the processor is further configured to determine a plurality of command options for controlling the target component and the display is further configured to display the plurality of command options for the user to control the target component. 
     
     
         4 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the processor is further configured to process the captured live image to identify a second component of the surgical robotic system, and the display is further configured to display information to indicate a current pose of the second component as one of the target poses of the target component. 
     
     
         5 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the processor is further configured to determine a trajectory to drive the target component from the current pose to the selected target pose. 
     
     
         6 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , further comprising one or more sensors configured to measure a three-dimensional position relative to the interface device of a plurality of surface points of the surgical robotic system captured in the live image, and wherein the processor is further configured to process the plurality of measured three-dimensional positions of the surface points of the surgical robotic system captured in the live image to identify the target component. 
     
     
         7 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the camera comprises a 3-dimensional camera configured to scan a patient on an operating table of the surgical robotic system during a pre-operative setup, wherein the processor is further configured to process scanned information of the patient to determine a patient-specific movement of the target component. 
     
     
         8 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the one or more control interfaces is further configured to generate a second input command to freeze a movement of the target component when the target component moves off the captured live image. 
     
     
         9 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the display is further configured to display a visual indication of the target component to allow the user to confirm the target component. 
     
     
         10 . The mobile interface device of  claim 1 , wherein the display is a touch-screen display and wherein the touch-screen display is configured to allow the user to select a current pose of a second component of the surgical robotic system in the captured live image as a desired target pose of the target component. 
     
     
         11 . A method for controlling a surgical robotic system, comprising:
 capturing, using a mobile device, a live image of a portion of the surgical robotic system;   identifying, by the mobile device or by a user, a target component of the surgical robotic system from the captured live image;
 displaying, by the mobile device, the captured live image and one or more target poses of the target component; 
   receiving, by the mobile device from the user, a selected target pose from the one or more target poses displayed; and   generating, by the mobile device, an input command to drive the target component from a current pose to the selected target pose.   
     
     
         12 . The method of  claim 11 , wherein the displaying, by the mobile device, the one or more target poses of the target component comprises presenting information about the one or more target poses. 
     
     
         13 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 generating, by the mobile device, a plurality of command options for controlling the target component; and   displaying, by the mobile device, the plurality of command options for the user to control the target component.   
     
     
         14 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 identifying, by the mobile device, a second component of the surgical robotic system from the captured live image; and   displaying, by the mobile device, information to indicate a current pose of the second component as one of the target poses of the target component.   
     
     
         15 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 determining, by the mobile device, a trajectory to drive the target component from the current pose to the selected target pose.   
     
     
         16 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 scanning a patient on an operating table of the surgical robotic system during a pre-operative setup to obtain three-dimensional information of the patient; and   processing the three-dimensional information of the patient to determine a patient-specific movement of the target component.   
     
     
         17 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 generating, by the mobile device, a second input command to freeze a movement of the target component when the target component moves off the captured live image.   
     
     
         18 . The method of  claim 11 , further comprising:
 displaying, by the mobile device, a visual indication of the target component to allow the user to confirm the target component.   
     
     
         19 . A surgical robotic system, comprising:
 an operating table;   a plurality of robotic arms coupled to the operating table;   a mobile interface device configured to:
 capture a live image of the operating table or the plurality of robotic arms; 
 display a rendered image of the operating table or the plurality of robotic arms from the live image; 
 receive user input to control the operating table or one of the robotic arms; and 
 generate an input command to control the operating table or one of the robotic arms in response to the user input; and 
   a control tower communicatively coupled to the mobile interface device, the operating table and the plurality of robotic arms, wherein the control tower is configured to:
 receive the input command from the mobile interface device; and 
 generate a control command to manipulate the operating table or one of the robotic arms in response to the input command. 
   
     
     
         20 . The surgical robotic system of  claim 19 , wherein the mobile interface device is further configured to present a plurality of input command options to control the operating table or one of the robotic arms.

## Description Snippet
TECHNICAL FIELD 
     The subject technology generally relates to robotics and surgical systems, and more specifically to a screen-based interface to identify and manipulate components such as surgical robotic arms or other components such as the table of a surgical robotic system for preparing or performing minimally invasive surgeries. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Minimally-invasive surgery (MIS), such as laparoscopic surgery, involves techniques intended to reduce tissue damage during a surgical procedure. For example, laparoscopic procedures typically involve creating a number of small incisions in the patient (e.g., in the abdomen), and introducing one or more surgical tools (e.g., end effectors and endoscope) through the incisions into the patient. The surgical procedures may then be performed using the introduced surgical tools, with the visualization aid provided by the endoscope. 
     Generally, MIS provides multiple benefits, such as reduced patient scarring, less patient pain, shorter patient recovery periods, and lower medical treatment costs associated with patient recovery. Recent technology development allows more MIS to be performed with robotic systems that include one or more robotic arms for manipulating surgical tools based on commands from a remote operator. A robotic arm may, for example, support at its distal end various devices such as surgical end effectors, imaging devices, cannulas for providing access to the patient&#39;s body cavity and organs, etc. In robotic MIS systems, it may be desirable to establish and maintain high positional accuracy for surgical instruments supported by the robotic arms. 
     Existing robotically-assisted surgical systems usually consist of a surgeon console from which a surgeon may select and manipulate the robotic arms and devices attached to the robotic arms. A robot controller may request the surgeon to select a robotic arm by presenting on the surgeon console identifiers such as numbers or mounting positions a...
