# Patent: US-2015065793-A1

## Title
Medical robotic system providing computer generated auxiliary views of a camera instrument for controlling the position and orienting of its tip

## Abstract
A medical robotic system includes an entry guide with surgical tools and a camera extending out of its distal end. To supplement the view provided by an image captured by the camera, an auxiliary view including articulatable arms of the surgical tools and/or camera is generated from sensed or otherwise determined information about their positions and orientations and displayed on a display screen from the perspective of a specified viewing point. Intuitive control is provided to an operator with respect to the auxiliary view while the operator controls the positioning and orienting of the camera.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20140917
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: DIOLAITI NICOLA, LARKIN DAVID Q., GOMEZ DANIEL H., MUSTUFA TABISH, MOHR PAUL W., LILAGAN PAUL E.
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/20, A61B2034/2074, A61B2090/365, A61B2034/102, A61B5/065, A61B90/361, A61B2034/305, A61B1/313, A61B2090/364, A61B2017/00119, A61B34/37, G09B23/285, A61B2034/301, A61B1/00154, A61B90/03, A61B90/36, A61B1/0005, G06T7/70, A61B34/30, A61B34/74, A61B1/00149, A61B1/05, A61B1/00045, A61B34/77, A61B1/00006, A61B1/00087, A61B1/00042, A61B1/00009, A61B1/00183, G06V30/224, A61B1/04, B25J3/00, B25J13/08, A61B90/00, A61M29/02, A61B17/24, A61B1/233, A61B1/126, A61B1/00096, A61B1/00066, A61B2019/2211, A61B19/2203

## Claims
1 - 28 . (canceled) 
     
     
         29 . A method for positioning and orienting a distal tip of an articulated image capturing instrument while the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument is extending out of an entry guide, the method comprising:
 determining a position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument;   generating an auxiliary view of a portion of the articulated image capturing instrument that is extending out of the entry guide by using the determined position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument, wherein the auxiliary view is from a three-dimensional viewing point from which the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument is viewable throughout an available workspace of the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument;   displaying the auxiliary view on a display screen; and   controlling the positioning and orienting of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument in response to movement of an input device by: accounting for misalignment between an orientation of the input device with respect to the auxiliary view being displayed on the display screen with respect to a control reference frame, and mapping movement of the input device with respect to the auxiliary view being displayed on the display screen to a scaled, commanded movement of the distal tip of the articulated image capturing instrument with respect to the control reference frame.   
     
     
         30 . The method of  claim 29 , wherein the control reference frame has an origin located at a point in space where the articulated image capturing instrument extends out of the entry guide. 
     
     
         31 . The method of  claim 29 , wherein the control reference frame has an origin and orientation aligned with a perspective of the auxiliary view being displayed on the display screen. 
     
     
         32 . The method of  claim 29 ,
 wherein the method further comprises determining a position and orientation of a distal tip of an articulated tool instrument when the distal tip of the articulated tool instrument is extending out of the entry guide;   wherein the generated auxiliary view further includes a portion of the articulated tool instrument that is extending out of the entry guide as determined by using the determined position and orientation of the distal tip of the articulated tool instrument; and   wherein the portion of the articulated tool instrument is viewable throughout an available workspace of the portion of the articulated tool instrument from the three-dimensional viewing point.   
     
     
         33 . The method of  claim 29 , wherein the generating an auxiliary view of a portion of the articulated image capturing instrument that is extending out of the entry guide comprises:
 generating a view of a computer model of the portion of the articulated image capturing instrument from the perspective of the three-dimensional viewing point.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This patent application claims benefit of the U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/101,384, filed Sep. 30, 2008 by inventors Nicola Diolaiti et al., entitled MEDICAL ROBOTIC SYSTEM PROVIDING COMPUTER GENERATED AUXILIARY VIEWS OF A CAMERA INSTRUMENT FOR CONTROLLING THE POSITIONING AND ORIENTING OF ITS TIP, and is a continuation-in-part to U.S. application Ser. No. 12/163,087 filed Jun. 27, 2008, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION 
     The present invention generally relates to medical robotic systems and in particular, to a medical robotic system providing computer generated auxiliary views of a camera instrument for controlling the positioning and orienting of its tip. 
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
     Medical robotic systems such as systems used in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures offer many benefits over traditional open surgery techniques, including less pain, shorter hospital stays, quicker return to normal activities, minimal scarring, reduced recovery time, and less injury to tissue. Consequently, demand for such medical robotic systems is strong and growing. 
     One example of such a medical robotic system is the da Vinci® Surgical System from Intuitive Surgical, Inc., of Sunnyvale, Calif., which is a minimally invasive robotic surgical system. The da Vinci® Surgical System has a number of robotic arms that move attached medical devices, such as an image capturing device and Intuitive Surgical&#39;s proprietary EndoWrist® articulating surgical instruments, in response to movement of input devices by a surgeon viewing images captured by the image capturing device of a surgical site. Each of the medical devices is inserted through its own minimally invasive incision into the patient and positioned to perform a medical procedure at the surgical site. The incisions are placed about the patient&#39;s body so that the surgical instruments ma...
