# Patent: US-2021137613-A1

## Title
Methods and systems for robotic-assisted surgery using customized bone registration guides

## Abstract
Described within are systems, methods and apparatus for a bone mounted robotic-assisted orthopedic surgery system for precise implant position, soft tissue balancing and guidance of tools during a surgical procedure, particularly partial or total knee replacement procedure. The system features a bone mounted robotic arm with end-effector for precise positioning of surgical tool, positioning of implants and balancing of soft tissues. The reconfigurable robotic system requires minimal training by surgeons, is intuitive to use similar to conventional instrumented surgery and has a small footprint. The system works with existing, conventional instruments, patient specific instruments, sensor-assisted systems and computer-assisted systems and does not require increased surgical time and safely provides the enhanced precision achievable by robotic-assisted systems and computer-assisted technologies.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20201106
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Charlie Wen-Ren Chi
- **Inventors**: Chi, Charlie Wen-Ren
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/30, A61B17/154, A61B2034/101, A61B2034/2055, A61B2090/065, A61B2090/066, A61B90/10, A61B2034/302, A61B17/175, A61B17/17, A61B17/1757, A61B17/1746, A61B2017/568, A61B17/15, A61B17/1764, A61B2034/108, A61B17/1742, A61B2017/00477, A61B2017/00398, A61B34/10, A61B2017/00212, A61B2034/301, A61B2034/105, B25J17/02

## Claims
What is claimed: 
     
         1 . A robotic device for performing an arthroplasty procedure, the robotic device comprising:
 a base unit comprising:
 a plurality of link joints each in mechanical communication with one of a plurality of activators; 
 a processing device; and 
 a non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with instructions, which when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to control the plurality of activators according to a joint arthroplasty procedure; 
   a mounting device in mechanical communication with a first link joint of the plurality of link joints and comprising a first configurable link to orient the base unit corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure, the mounting plate mounted to a patient&#39;s anatomy via a customized registration device; and   a configurable resection guide in mechanical communication with a second link joint of the plurality of link joints and comprising a second configurable link to orient the resection guide corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure.   
     
     
         2 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the first configurable link comprises a linear link configured to translate the mounting device linearly in relation to the base unit. 
     
     
         3 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the first configurable link comprises a rotational link configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the base unit. 
     
     
         4 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the first configurable link comprises:
 a linear link configured to translate the mounting device linearly in relation to the base unit; and   a rotational link in mechanical communication with the linear link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the linear link.   
     
     
         5 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the first configurable link comprises:
 a first rotational link configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the base unit; and   a second rotational link in mechanical communication with the first rotational link and configured to rotate the mounting device in relation to the first rotational link.   
     
     
         6 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the plurality of activators comprises a plurality of servo motors to rotate the plurality of link joints. 
     
     
         7 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the base unit further comprises: a communication port receiving the instructions to cause the processing device to control the plurality of activators according to the joint arthroplasty procedure. 
     
     
         8 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the base unit further comprises: an input device receiving inputs to control the plurality of activators. 
     
     
         9 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the joint arthroplasty procedure comprises an intra-operative, soft-tissue gap balancing for both static and dynamic motion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         10 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the plurality of link joints of the base unit is detachable from the plurality of link joints while the mounting plate is mounted to a patient&#39;s anatomy via a customized registration device. 
     
     
         11 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein the customized registration device is generated based on locating a plurality of mating shapes within a plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy, the customized registration device comprising a customized surface configured to mate, via the plurality of mating shapes, to a bone of the patient&#39;s anatomy and a registration surface configured to attach to the robotic device. 
     
     
         12 . The robotic device of  claim 11 , wherein the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s anatomy comprises a plurality of magnetic-resonance images. 
     
     
         13 . The robotic device of  claim 11 , wherein the customized registration device is further generated based on identifying one or more landmarks on the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint and reorienting the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint based at least on the one or more landmarks. 
     
     
         14 . The robotic device of  claim 1 , wherein control of the plurality of activators according to the joint arthroplasty procedure orients the resection guide for resection of a patient bone portion. 
     
     
         15 . A method for performing an arthroplasty procedure, the method comprising:
 receiving a plurality of two-dimensional images of a patient&#39;s joint the subject of the arthroplasty procedure; and   generating, based on locating a plurality of mating shapes within the plurality of two-dimensional images of the patient&#39;s joint, a customized registration guide for the patient&#39;s joint for use during the arthroplasty procedure; and   mounting, using the customized registration guide, a robotic device on the patient&#39;s anatomy, the robotic device comprising:
 a mounting device mounted to the patient&#39;s anatomy; 
 a first link joint of a base unit in mechanical communication with the mounting device to orient the base unit corresponding to the joint arthroplasty procedure; and 
 a configurable resection guide in mechanical communication with a second link joint of the base unit and oriented to provide a resection guide for the joint arthroplasty procedure. 
   
     
     
         16 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the joint arthroplasty procedure comprising an intra-operative, soft-tissue gap balancing for both static and dynamic motion of the patient&#39;s anatomy. 
     
     
         17 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the robotic device is configurable with one of two-degrees, three-degrees, four-degrees, five-degrees, or six-degrees of freedom. 
     
     
         18 . The method of  claim 15 , wherein the base unit further comprises an input device and the method further comprises:
 activating the first link joint based on receiving a first input via the input device.   
     
     
         19 . The method of  claim 18  further comprising:
 activating the second link joint based on receiving a second input via the input device. 
 
     
     
         20 . The method of  claim 15  further comprising:
 cycling through a series of activations of the first link joint and the second link joint in response to repeated inputs received via the input device.

## Description Snippet
RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S. Patent Application No. 62/933,874, filed Nov. 11, 2019 entitled “BONE-MOUNTED ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGICAL SYSTEMS,” and from U.S. Patent Application No. 63/090,384, filed Oct. 12, 2020 entitled “ROBOTIC-ASSISTED SURGERY USING CUSTOMIZED BONE REGISTRATION GUIDES,” the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. 
    
    
     TECHNICAL FIELD 
     Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods for creating and utilizing customized arthroplasty registration guides in joint replacement procedures. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to methods for creating arthroplasty registration guides customized to a particular patient for use in robot-assisted surgical procedures that provide three-dimensional reference information of the patient to the surgical robot to orient a surgical plan for execution by the surgical robot, including bone-mounted surgical robots. 
     BACKGROUND 
     Through repeated heavy lifting, traumatic events, bone disease and/or arthritis, a patient&#39;s joints, such as knee, hip, shoulder and ankle may become degenerated, damaged or loosened to the point that pain or paralysis does not respond to medication or other forms of non-surgical treatments. One type of procedure to address damage to a person&#39;s joint is a total or partial joint arthroplasty procedure. Arthroplasty is a medical procedure where a joint of a patient is replaced, remodeled, or realigned, often done to relieve pain in the joint after damage. Damage to the joint may result in a reduction or wearing away of cartilage in the joint area, which operates to provide frictional, compressive, shear, and tensile cushioning within the joint. As such, reduction in cartilage in a joint causes pain and decreased mobility of the joint. To combat this joint pain, a patient may undergo the art...
