# Patent: US-9949800-B2

## Title
Curved cannula surgical system control

## Abstract
A robotic surgical system is configured with rigid, curved cannulas that extend through the same opening into a patient&#39;s body. Surgical instruments with passively flexible shafts extend through the curved cannulas. The cannulas are oriented to direct the instruments towards a surgical site. A teleoperation control system that moves the curved cannulas and their associated instruments in a manner that allows a surgeon to experience intuitive control is disclosed. The flexible shaft instruments are controlled as if extending along a virtual straight line insertion and withdrawal axis. Various port features that support the curved cannulas within the single opening are disclosed. Cannula support fixtures that support the cannulas during insertion into the single opening and mounting to robotic manipulators are disclosed.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20160216
- **Grant Date**: 20180424
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PRISCO, GIUSEPPE MARIA, AU, SAMUEL
- **CPC Codes**: A61B34/37, A61B2017/00526, A61B90/50, A61B2017/00473, A61M25/0105, A61B1/313, A61B2017/0419, A61B17/3439, A61B2017/2904, A61B90/37, A61B2017/3429, A61M25/0041, A61B17/3498, A61B17/3423, A61B1/00149, A61B17/3421, A61B90/03, A61B2017/2905, A61B1/00193, A61B2034/2061, A61B90/92, A61B34/76, A61B34/10, A61B2017/2929, A61B2017/00845, A61B17/0218, A61B34/73, A61B90/90, A61B34/30, A61B17/3462, A61B2017/3419, A61B34/71, A61B2034/305, A61B17/3431, A61B2017/3466, A61B2017/2936, A61B2034/301, Y10S901/00, A61B17/3474, A61B2017/3454, A61B2017/2948, A61B2017/3445, A61B2017/3447

## Claims
We claim: 
     
       1. A control system for a surgical system:
 wherein the surgical system comprises a master and a slave manipulator; 
 wherein the control system comprises a controller and is configured to control movement of a surgical instrument inserted through a curved cannula operably coupled to the slave manipulator at a proximal end of the curved cannula; 
 wherein the controller is configured to receive input from the master and to generate output to control movement of the slave manipulator in response to the input; and 
 wherein the controller is further configured to generate the output based on kinematic control parameters selected to model a position of an end effector of the surgical instrument as if the end effector is positioned along an insertion and withdrawal axis extending along a straight line coincident with a longitudinal axis of a distal end of the curved cannula. 
 
     
     
       2. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the control system is configured to control movement of the curved cannula around a center of motion of the curved cannula in at least one of pitch and yaw. 
     
     
       3. The control system of  claim 2 , wherein the center of motion is located along a longitudinal centerline of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       4. The control system of  claim 2 , wherein the center of motion is located proximal to a curved distal portion of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       5. The control system of  claim 2 , wherein the insertion and withdrawal axis does not intersect the center of motion. 
     
     
       6. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the kinematic control parameters comprise a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter. 
     
     
       7. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to generate the output to preclude movement of the slave manipulator until the end effector is advanced past the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       8. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is further configured to generate the output based on a distance an instrument shaft of the surgical instrument extends beyond the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       9. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to generate the output to limit a distance an instrument shaft of the surgical instrument extends beyond the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       10. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to generate the output to limit a distance an instrument shaft of the surgical instrument extends beyond the distal end of the curved cannula based at least in part on a stiffness of a portion of the instrument shaft extending beyond the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       11. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to generate the output to activate a servomotor, and wherein activation of the servomotor provides haptic feedback through the master. 
     
     
       12. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein controller is configured to provide haptic feedback through the master when the slave manipulator approaches a maximum range of motion. 
     
     
       13. The control system of  claim 1 , wherein the controller is configured to provide haptic feedback through the master when an external force is applied to the slave manipulator. 
     
     
       14. A control system for a surgical system:
 wherein the surgical system includes a master and a slave manipulator; 
 wherein the control system comprises a controller and is configured to control movement of a surgical instrument inserted through a curved cannula operably coupled to the slave manipulator at a proximal end of the curved cannula; 
 wherein the controller is configured to receive input from the master and to generate output to control movement of the slave manipulator to manipulate the curved cannula about a center of motion located along a longitudinal centerline of the curved cannula in response to the input; and 
 wherein the controller is further configured to generate the output based on kinematic control parameters selected to model a longitudinal position of an end effector of the surgical instrument along an insertion and withdrawal axis that does not intersect the center of motion of the curved cannula. 
 
     
     
       15. The control system of  claim 14 , wherein the insertion and withdrawal axis extends in a straight line coincident with a longitudinal axis of a distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       16. The control system of  claim 15 , wherein the insertion and withdrawal axis diverges from the longitudinal centerline of the curved cannula as the insertion and withdrawal axis extends away from the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       17. The control system of  claim 15 , wherein the center of motion of the curved cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       18. The control system of  claim 14 , wherein the controller is further configured to generate the output to control movement of the slave manipulator to move the curved cannula in at least one of pitch and yaw about the center of motion of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       19. The control system of  claim 14 , wherein the kinematic control parameters comprise a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/523,270 (filed Oct. 24, 2014), which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,598 (filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,888,789), which is a continuation-in-part of Ser. No. 12/618,549 (filed Nov. 13, 2009, now abandoned), which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61/245,171 (filed Sep. 23, 2009), all of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
     This application may be related to the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,583, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,545,515; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/015,302, filed Aug. 30, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,608, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,551,115; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/025,138, filed Sep. 12, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/073,485, filed Nov. 6, 2013 (disclosing “Surgical Port Feature”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,631, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,465,476; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/898,753, filed May 21, 2013 (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     1. Field of Invention 
     Inventive aspects pertain to minimally invasive surgery, more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems, and still more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems that work through a single entry point into the patient&#39;s body. 
     2. Art. 
     Benefits of minimally invasive surgery are well known, and they include less patient trauma, less blood loss, and faster recovery times when compared to traditional open incision surgery. In addition, the use of robotic surgical systems (e.g., teleoperated robotic systems that provide telepres...
