# Patent: US-9283050-B2

## Title
Curved cannula surgical system control

## Abstract
A robotic surgical system is configured with rigid, curved cannulas that extend through the same opening into a patient&#39;s body. Surgical instruments with passively flexible shafts extend through the curved cannulas. The cannulas are oriented to direct the instruments towards a surgical site. A teleoperation control system that moves the curved cannulas and their associated instruments in a manner that allows a surgeon to experience intuitive control is disclosed. The flexible shaft instruments are controlled as if extending along a virtual straight line insertion and withdrawal axis. Various port features that support the curved cannulas within the single opening are disclosed. Cannula support fixtures that support the cannulas during insertion into the single opening and mounting to robotic manipulators are disclosed.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20141024
- **Grant Date**: 20160315
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PRISCO GIUSEPPE MARIA, AU SAMUEL
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2017/3447, A61B2017/3454, A61B17/3462, A61B17/3498, A61B19/2203, A61B19/44, A61B2019/2211, A61B2019/444, A61B17/3474, A61B17/3439, A61B2019/2223, A61B2019/2242, A61B2017/2948, A61B2017/3445, A61B1/313, A61B2019/2292, A61B17/3421, A61B19/26, A61B2019/2253, A61M25/0105, A61B2017/00473, A61B2017/0419, A61B2017/2904, A61B2017/3429, A61B17/3423, A61B2019/2234, A61B2017/2929, A61B17/0218, A61M25/0041, A61B2017/00526, A61B2017/2905, A61B2017/00845, A61B2017/2936, A61B17/3431, A61B2017/3466, A61B2019/5261, A61B1/00193, A61B2017/3419, A61B1/00149, A61B34/37, A61B90/50, A61B2034/2061, A61B90/92, A61B90/90, A61B2034/301, A61B34/76, A61B34/73, A61B34/71, A61B2034/305, A61B34/30, Y10S901/00, A61B90/03, A61B90/37, A61B34/10

## Claims
We claim:  
     
       1. A surgical system comprising:
 a master manipulator; 
 a slave manipulator controllable in response to input at the master manipulator; 
 a curved cannula coupled to the slave manipulator, and movable about a center of motion of the curved cannula; 
 an instrument comprising:
 a passively flexible shaft, 
 a wrist mechanism disposed at a distal end of the passively flexible shaft, and 
 a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist mechanism, 
 wherein the passively flexible shaft is advanceable past a distal end of the curved cannula, 
 wherein a straight line instrument insertion and withdrawal axis is defined by a straight line that extends from a longitudinal axis of the curved cannula at the distal end of the curved cannula; and 
 
 a control system in communication with the master manipulator and the slave manipulator,
 wherein the control system is configured to determine a motion for the curved cannula based on kinematic control parameters that define the passively flexible shaft as being positioned along the straight line insertion and withdrawal axis, and 
 wherein the control system is configured to command the slave manipulator to move the distal end of the curved cannula around the cannula center of motion based on the determined motion of the curved cannula. 
 
 
     
     
       2. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the instrument insertion and withdrawal axis is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the curved cannula at the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       3. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the passively flexible shaft extends along the straight line insertion and withdrawal axis when the passively flexible shaft is advanced past the distal end of the curved cannula. 
     
     
       4. The surgical system of  claim 1 :
 wherein the control system prevents a portion of the passively flexible shaft from advancing past a preset limit distance past the distal end of the curved cannula; and 
 wherein the preset limit is determined by a stiffness of the portion of the passively flexible shaft. 
 
     
     
       5. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the control system deters movement of the master manipulator from moving the cannula or the instrument until at least a distal tip of the instrument is advanced past the distal end of the cannula. 
     
     
       6. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the kinematic control parameters comprise a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter. 
     
     
       7. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the wrist mechanism is configured to move the end effector relative to the passively flexible shaft in at least one of pitch motion and yaw motion. 
     
     
       8. The surgical system of  claim 7 , wherein the wrist mechanism is configured to move the end effector relative to the passively flexible shaft in pitch motion and yaw motion. 
     
     
       9. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the control system is configured to:
 determine a motion of the wrist mechanism, and 
 output a slave command to the slave manipulator to move the wrist mechanism. 
 
     
     
       10. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, when the passively flexible instrument shaft is advanced past the distal end of the cannula, the control system is configured to automatically position the wrist mechanism for withdrawal of the wrist mechanism and end effector into the cannula. 
     
     
       11. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the wrist mechanism is configured to articulate the end effector relative to the shaft. 
     
     
       12. A method of control in a teleoperated surgical system, the method comprising:
 defining a straight line instrument insertion and withdrawal axis that is a straight line extending from a longitudinal axis of a curved cannula at a distal end of the curved cannula, wherein the curved cannula is coupled to a slave manipulator and an instrument extends through the cannula, wherein the instrument comprises a passively flexible shaft, a surgical end effector, and a wrist mechanism; 
 receiving a master command from a master manipulator to move the instrument; and 
 in response to receiving a master command from the master manipulator:
 determining a motion for the curved cannula based on kinematic control parameters that define the passively flexible shaft as being positioned along the straight line insertion and withdrawal axis, and 
 outputting a slave command to the slave manipulator to move the curved cannula around a remote center of motion based on the determined motion of the curved cannula. 
 
 
     
     
       13. The method of  claim 12 , further comprising:
 automatically preventing the passively flexible shaft from advancing past a preset distance past the distal end of the curved cannula; 
 wherein the preset distance is determined by a stiffness of the distal portion of the instrument shaft. 
 
     
     
       14. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the outputting the slave command comprises moving the curved cannula about a remote center of motion located on the curved cannula. 
     
     
       15. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the outputting the slave command occurs only if a distal tip of the instrument extends beyond the distal end of the cannula. 
     
     
       16. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the kinematic control parameters comprise a Denavit-Hartenberg parameter. 
     
     
       17. The method of  claim 12 , further comprising:
 generating the slave command based on kinematic information associated with the curved cannula; 
 wherein the curved cannula comprises a curved section and straight section between the curved section and the distal end of the curved cannula; and 
 wherein the kinematic information excludes information associated with the straight section of the curved cannula. 
 
     
     
       18. The method of  claim 12 , wherein the instrument insertion and withdrawal axis is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the curved cannula at the distal end of the curved cannula.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,598 (filed Nov. 13, 2009), which is a continuation-in-part of Ser. No. 12/618,549 (filed Nov. 13, 2009, now abandoned), which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61/245,171 (filed Sep. 23, 2009), both of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
     This application may be related to the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,583, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,545,515; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/015,302, filed Aug. 30, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,608, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,551,115; U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/025,138, filed Sep. 12, 2013 (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/073,485, filed Nov. 6, 2013 (disclosing “Surgical Port Feature”); U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,631, filed Nov. 13, 2009, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,465,476; and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/898,753, filed May 21, 2013 (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 
    
    
     BACKGROUND 
     1. Field of Invention 
     Inventive aspects pertain to minimally invasive surgery, more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems, and still more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems that work through a single entry point into the patient&#39;s body. 
     2. Art. 
     Benefits of minimally invasive surgery are well known, and they include less patient trauma, less blood loss, and faster recovery times when compared to traditional, open incision surgery. In addition, the use of robotic surgical systems (e.g., teleoperated robotic systems that provide telepresence), such as the da Vinci® Surgical System manufactured by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif. is kno...
