# Patent: US-9254178-B2

## Title
Curved cannula surgical system

## Abstract
A robotic surgical system is configured with rigid, curved cannulas that extend through the same opening into a patient&#39;s body. Surgical instruments with passively flexible shafts extend through the curved cannulas. The cannulas are oriented to direct the instruments towards a surgical site. Various port features that support the curved cannulas within the single opening are disclosed. Cannula support fixtures that support the cannulas during insertion into the single opening and mounting to robotic manipulators are disclosed. A teleoperation control system that moves the curved cannulas and their associated instruments in a manner that allows a surgeon to experience intuitive control is disclosed.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20130830
- **Grant Date**: 20160209
- **Country**: US
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: PRISCO GIUSEPPE MARIA, GERBI CRAIG R., ROGERS THEODORE W., STEGER JOHN RYAN
- **CPC Codes**: A61B1/00149, A61B2017/2905, A61B17/3421, A61B90/90, A61B17/3439, A61B17/0218, A61B34/30, A61B2017/00526, A61B2017/3429, A61B2017/3454, A61B2017/00845, A61B34/71, A61B2017/3445, A61B2034/305, A61B34/37, A61B2017/3447, A61B50/13, A61B34/73, B25J13/02, A61B2017/3419, A61B2017/3441, A61B2017/2929, A61B2017/2936, A61B90/50, A61B34/76, A61B17/3423, A61B17/3474, A61B17/3431, A61B2017/3466, A61B2017/00477, A61B2034/301, Y10S901/41, A61B90/92, A61B2017/2904, A61B34/70, A61B19/2203, A61B2019/444, A61B19/26, A61B2019/2253, A61B2019/2211, A61B2019/2242, A61B19/44, A61B2019/2234, A61B2019/025, A61B2019/2223, A61B2019/2292, A61B2090/0811

## Claims
We claim:    
     
       1. A surgical system, comprising:
 a first cannula comprising:
 a proximal end configured to be operably coupled to a first manipulator for remotely actuating movement of the first cannula; 
 a distal end opposite the proximal end; 
 a rigid portion between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the rigid portion has a curved longitudinal axis; and 
 a center of motion defined between the proximal end and the distal end in a coupled state of the first cannula to the first manipulator; 
 
 a second cannula comprising:
 a proximal end configured to be operably coupled to a second manipulator for remotely actuating movement of the second cannula; 
 a distal end opposite the proximal end; 
 a rigid portion between the proximal and distal ends, wherein the rigid portion has a curved longitudinal axis; and 
 a center of motion defined between the proximal end and distal end in a coupled state of the second cannula to the second manipulator; 
 
 wherein, in the coupled state of the first and second cannulas to the first and second manipulators:
 the respective centers of motion of the first and second cannulas are proximate to each other, and 
 longitudinal axes of the first and second cannulas at the first and second centers of motion cross one another. 
 
 
     
     
       2. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, in the coupled state, the first and second cannulas are configured to move in pitch and yaw movements around the respective centers of motion. 
     
     
       3. The surgical system of  claim 1 , further comprising:
 an endoscope having a proximal end configured to be operably coupled to an endoscope manipulator for remotely actuating movement of the endoscope; 
 wherein, in a coupled state of the endoscope to the endoscope manipulator, the endoscope having a center of motion defined between the proximal end and distal end of the endoscope; and 
 wherein, in a coupled state of the first cannula, second cannula, and endoscope with respective manipulators, the respective centers of motion of the first and second cannulas and the endoscope are approximately aligned. 
 
     
     
       4. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein at least one of the first and second cannulas comprises a rigid straight section between the or each curved portion and the or each distal end. 
     
     
       5. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, in the coupled state, the first and second cannulas extend away from one another in a direction from the respective centers of motion towards the respective proximal ends of the first and second cannulas. 
     
     
       6. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, in the coupled state:
 in a direction from the respective center of motion to the distal end of the first cannula, the first cannula extends away from the second cannula and then toward the second cannula; and 
 in a direction from the respective center of motion to the distal end of the second cannula, the second cannula extends away from the first cannula and then toward the first cannula. 
 
     
     
       7. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein:
 at least one of the first cannula and the second cannula comprises a rigid straight section including the distal end of the at least one of the first cannula and the second cannula; and 
 an inner diameter of the at least one of the first cannula and the second cannula at the distal end of the rigid straight section is less than an inner diameter of the at least one of the first cannula and the second cannula at the rigid curved section. 
 
     
     
       8. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein each of the first and second cannulas comprises a first longitudinal axis at proximal ends of the first and a second cannulas and a second longitudinal axis at distal ends of the first and second cannulas, wherein the first longitudinal axis and the second longitudinal axis extend in different directions. 
     
     
       9. The surgical system of  claim 1 , at least one of the first and second cannulas further comprising a mechanical key feature configured to maintain the at least one of the first and second cannulas in a particular roll orientation with reference to a respective manipulator. 
     
     
       10. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, in the coupled state of the first and second cannulas with the respective first and second manipulators, the distal ends of the first and second cannulas are positioned to provide triangulation for distal ends of first and second surgical instruments respectively inserted through the first and second cannulas. 
     
     
       11. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the curved longitudinal axes of the first and second cannulas are located between the centers of motion of the first and second cannulas and the distal ends of the first and second cannulas, respectively. 
     
     
       12. The surgical system of  claim 1 , further comprising a port defining paths along which the first and second cannulas are configured to extend such that the centers of motion of the first and second cannulas are proximate to each other and longitudinal axes of the first and second cannulas at the first and second centers of motion cross one another. 
     
     
       13. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the curved longitudinal axes of each of the first and second cannulas have a single inflection. 
     
     
       14. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the curved longitudinal axes of each of the first and second cannulas have a plurality of inflections. 
     
     
       15. The surgical system of  claim 1 , further comprising first and second surgical instruments configured to be inserted through the first and second cannulas, respectively. 
     
     
       16. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein, in the coupled state of the first and second cannulas, the centers of motion of the first and second cannulas are sufficiently close to one another to permit insertion of the first and second cannulas through a single opening in a body of a patient. 
     
     
       17. The surgical system of  claim 1 , wherein the first and second manipulators are patient side teleoperated manipulators of a teleoperated surgical system.

## Description Snippet
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 
     This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,583 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 ) (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System”), which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,549 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 (disclosing “Curved Cannula”), which claims the benefit of provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61/245,171 (filed Sep. 23, 2009 )(disclosing “Curved Cannula”), all of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
     This application may be related to the following applications: U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,598 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 ) (disclosing “Curved Cannula Surgical System Control”), U.S. Patent Application No. 12/618,608 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 ) (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”), issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,551,115 on Oct. 8, 2013 , U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/025,138 (filed Sep. 12, 2013 ) (disclosing “Curved Cannula Instrument”), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,621 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 )(disclosing “Surgical Port Feature”), U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/618,631 (filed Nov. 13, 2009 ), issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8,465,476 on June 18, 2013 , (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/898,753 (filed May 21, 2013 ) (disclosing “Cannula Mounting Fixture”), all of which are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    
     BACKROUND 
     1. Field of Invention 
     inventive aspects pertain to minimally invasive surgery, more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems, and still more particularly to minimally invasive robotic surgical systems that work through a single entry point into the patient&#39;s body. 
     2. Art 
     Benefits of minimally invasive surgery are well known, and they include less patient trauma, less blood loss, and faster recovery times when compared to traditional, open incision surgery. In addition, the use of robotic surgical systems (e.g., teleopera...
