# Patent: WO-2014028702-A1

## Title
User initiated break-away clutching of a surgical mounting platform

## Abstract
Robotic and/or surgical devices, systems, and methods include kinematic linkage structures and associated control systems configured to facilitate preparation of the system for use. One or more kinematic linkage sub-systems may include joints that are actively driven, passive, or a mix of both. A set-up mode employs an intuitive user interface in which one or more joints are initially held static by a brake or joint drive system. The user may articulate the joint(s) by manually pushing against the linkage with a force, torque, or the like that exceeds a manual articulation threshold. Articulation of the moving joints is facilitated by modifying the signals transmitted to the brake or drive system. The system may sense completion of the reconfiguration from a velocity of the joint(s) falling below a threshold, optionally for a desired dwell time. The system may provide a detent-like manual articulation that is not limited to mechanically pre-defined detent joint configurations. Embodiments of the invention provide, and can be particularly well-suited for manual movement of a platform supporting a plurality of surgical manipulators in a robotic surgical system or the like without having to add additional input devices.

## Bibliographic Data
- **Filing Date**: 20130815
- **Grant Date**: None
- **Country**: WO
- **Assignee**: Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc.
- **Inventors**: GRIFFITHS, Paul G., MOHR, PAUL W., SWARUP, NITISH
- **CPC Codes**: A61B2090/066, A61B2090/508, A61B2034/304, A61B34/30, A61B2034/301, A61B34/37, A61B90/06, A61B34/77, A61B90/50, G05B2219/40414, B25J9/1669, Y10S901/02, A61B34/35, B25J9/1633

